Source: Dawn
Publisher: Pakistan Herald Publications (Pvt.) Limited
Byline: Aamir Yasin 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Dawn 
Publication Date: Dec 11, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,rawlp,pakis,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Chinese firm to conduct free feasibility study for circular rail service

Snippet: A Chinese company will conduct a free feasibility study for a project to run a circular rail service along the proposed Leh Expressway between Rawalpindi and Islamabad.

The company, the Rawalpindi Development Authority (RDA) and Capital Development Authority (CDA) will work together and will sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) soon. The Ministry of Railways will coordinate between the company and the local civic authorities, a senior railway official said.

Body: 
Sources told Dawn that the China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC) would conduct a feasibility study to run the rail service along Leh Nullah between the twin cities.

The Ministry of Railways and the CCECC decided to begin work on the project after Railways Minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmed's official visit to China, where the project was discussed.

Firm, RDA and CDA to work together on train service between twin cities, MoU to be signed soon

'The CCECC management has decided to conduct a survey to initiate a technical and financial feasibility study for the project and local leadership has been asked to take up the project as a priority,' a senior ministry official told Dawn.

He said that Mr Ahmed arranged a meeting with the local administration and senior RDA officials at the company's request.

'The Punjab government agreed in principle to launch the train project but funds will be allocated in the next fiscal year. The provincial government has less money in the current fiscal budget,' he said.

The RDA has provided a feasibility study conducted for the Leh Expressway project, he said, adding that a team from the company wants to hold a detailed meeting with the Ministry of Railways planning department and the administrations of Rawalpindi and Islamabad to discuss a strategy for the proposed project.

The circular rail would cover all three major points in the twin cities - Saddar in Rawalpindi, Pakistan Secretariat in Islamabad and the Islamabad International Airport - along with other areas along the 25 kilometre Leh Expressway.

On Wednesday, a delegation from the company visited Rawalpindi and met with Commissioner retired Capt Mohammad Mehmood. Mr Mehmood asked the company to carry out the feasibility study and sign an MoU.

According to a press release, the commissioner said the Leh Expressway and circular rail projects will facilitate the residents of the twin cities and the local administration will provide its full support in this regard.