Source: Dawn
Publisher: Pakistan Herald Publications (Pvt.) Limited
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Dawn 
Publication Date: Oct 03, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Chinese workers celebrate National Day in Kohistan

Snippet: The Chinese nationals working on Dasu hydropower project celebrated their country's 70th National Day in Barsian area of Upper Kohistan district on Wednesday.

A special ceremony was held for the purpose with Dasu assistant commissioner Anwar Akbar Khan, Frontier Constabulary official Zulfiqar Khan and deputy superintendent of police Iqrar Khan in attendance. Pakistani flag was also hoisted there.

Body: 
General manager of the Chinese company working on the project Than said the Sino-Pak friendship was stronger than iron and higher than Himalayas.

He praised the residents of Kohistan for their hospitality and cooperation towards Chinese workers.

PRICE HIKE: The price of a 20kg flour bag has gone up from Rs900 to Rs1,000 here with traders blaming it on the government's failure to release wheat quota for flour mills.

The local flour mills have suspended wheat grinding for two months after the Punjab government began supplying wheat to flour mills in the province at a subsidised price.

The traders fear there will be a flour shortage if the Punjab government imposes an inter-provincial ban on transportation.

The food department has fixed a quota of 1,000 begs of 100kg for Mansehra district but the release, which usually happens from mid-August to mid-May, hasn't begun yet.

'If the government begins releasing wheat quota to local flour mills, flour price will drop by Rs4-Rs5 per kg,' trader Mohammad Javed said.

Mill owner Malik Muzafar said the district had 12 flour mills and half of them were closed for one reason or the other.

He said wheat price would stabilise if the government released wheat in line with quota.

DEATH SENTENCE: For the first time, the local judiciary in Upper Kohistan district handed down death sentence to two people after conviction in a murder case on Thursday.

District and sessions judge Mohammad Arshad announced death sentence for Gul Mohammad and Ejazur Rehman for killing Afsar Shah in Kamila area in Feb this year.

The district got regular courts around 20 years ago after the curtain fell on Qazi courts.

HAILED: The people, whose land has been acquired for the Dasu hydropower project, have appreciated the Executive Committee of National Economic Council for increasing the prices of their land and houses by 40 per cent.

They, however, said their sit-in at the project site would continue until the increase was notified.

The landowners have suspended work on the project for two weeks by staging the sit-in.