Source: Dawn
Publisher: Pakistan Herald Publications (Pvt.) Limited
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Dawn 
Publication Date: Feb 02, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Early creation of Rashakai economic zone promised

Snippet: Chief Minister Mahmood Khan has said that Rashakai Special Economic Zone (RSEZ) will be set up on priority basis.

He directed the relevant officials to examine all legal aspects for early completion of the economic zone. He said that all facilities to foreign investors, especially Chinese, would be provided on priority basis.

Body: 
According to a statement, the chief minister said that the departments concerned should hold a meeting with the finance minister so that concrete decisions would be made in the next cabinet meeting.

He was presiding over a meeting at Chief Minister Secretariat here on Saturday. Adviser to Chief Minister on Industries and Commerce Abdul Karim Torghar, Special Monitoring Unit (SSU) head Sahibzada Saeed and other officials attended the meeting.

The chief minister said that all possible support and facilities would be provided to Chinese investors for economic activities in the province. He said that after completion, the Rashakai Special Economic Zone would boost economy and create job opportunities s in the province.

The chief minister said that the departments concerned should coordinate with each other and play positive role for early completion of Rashakai zone.

Mr Khan said that keeping all legal aspects of the project in mind, a complete strategy should be presented to him regarding its early completion. He said that the strategy would be presented in the next cabinet meeting for concrete decisions.

The chief minister said that government would leave no stone unturned for economic stability of the province. Establishment of industrial zones in other districts of the province was also priority of the provincial government, he added.

The chief minister said that all investors would be facilitated to give easy access to Rashakai Special Economic Zone and all other industrial zones in the province. He said that provincial government was trying to establish a network of industrial zones in the province for economic stability and self-reliance so that the local communities could get jobs and other business facilities.