Source: The Nation
Publisher: News Bites Pty Ltd
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 Asianet-Pakistan 
Publication Date: Apr 24, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,easiaz,chinaz,pakis,beijin,apacz,asiaz,bric,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: PM Khan to leave for four-day official visit to China today

Snippet: Prime Minister Imran Khan will embark upon a four-day official visit to China from Thursday (today).

He is paying the visit at the invitation of President Xi Jinping to attend the 2nd Belt and Road Forum in Beijing on Friday (tomorrow).

Body: 
The Prime Minister will deliver a keynote speech in the opening ceremony of the Forum and participate in the Leaders' Round Table.

He will also participate in different other events related to the Belt and Road Initiative.

The Belt and Road Forum provides a platform to countries participating in Belt and Road Initiative for exchanging views and experiences on regional connectivity, policy synergy, socio-economic development and trade and commerce.

Leaders from forty countries and delegations from over 100 countries, international organizations and corporate sector would participate in the event.

The Prime Minister, who will be accompanied by a ministerial delegation, will also hold meetings with several Heads of State, Government and corporate and business leaders.

Another prominent feature of Imran Khan 's visit to Beijing will be the signing of the second phase of Free Trade Agreement between Pakistan and China.

Special measures are being contemplated under the agreement to safeguard interests of the Pakistani industries while promoting trade with China.

READ MORE: Pakistan making all out efforts for peace in entire region: FO

Several other agreements and MoUs are also expected to be signed during the visit to further boost cooperation between the two countries in diverse fields.

The Prime Minister will also hold bilateral meetings with President Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang.

The Prime Minister will also attend Beijing International Horticulture Exhibition-2019 and address Pakistan Trade and Investment Conference in Beijing.

This will be the second visit of the Prime Minister to China. He had earlier paid a state visit to China in November last year.