Source: BBC Monitoring South Asia
Publisher: The British Broadcasting Corporation
Byline: 
Copyright: (c) 2019 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation. 
Publication Date: Nov 25, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,afgh,asiaz,casiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Highlights from Pakistan's Pashto-language TV, press, websites 25 Nov 19

Snippet: THE FOLLOWING IS A BBCM SELECTION OF MAJOR NEWS ITEMS PUBLISHED IN PAKISTAN'S PASHTO-LANGUAGE TV, PRESS AND ONLINE MEDIA OUTLETS ON 25 NOVEMBER 2019.

Wahdat

Body: 
PML-N vice president refuses to join All Parties Conference

According to media reports, THE Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) Vice President Maryam Nawaz has refused from participating in all parties' conference (APC). However, a four-member team of the PML-N would participate in APC. The Jamiat Ulema-i-Islam (Fazl) (JUI-F) has called All Parties Conference on 26 November, in which opposition parties would take part. (front page, 180 words approx.)

Parents should ensure polio vaccination: KP health minister

The health minister of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP), Hasham Inam Ullah, has said that denial cases of polio vaccination and propaganda against it has spread fear related to polio vaccination. He said though children are unable to decide about their fates but parents should understand the importance of anti-polio vaccination and should ensure vaccination to their children. (back page, 170 words approx.)

Judicial remand of PPP leader extended by 15 days

The accountability court has extended the judicial remand of the Pakistan People's Party (PPP) leader Khursheed Shah by 15 days in assets beyond known means case. The court said Khursheed Shah's mobile phone would be returned to him after the forensic investigaion. Khursheed Shah is under medical care due to his heart problem. (front page, 150 words approx.)

[Wahdat gives good and equal coverage to both sides of the Durand Line (Pakistan-Afghan frontier), with a focus on Pashtun issues. The paper also publishes interviews with Afghan political leaders. It provides a balanced mix of anti-Taliban and pro-Taliban opinion.]

Khabroona

CPEC is first priority of government: Firdous Ashiq Awan

Special Assistant to Prime Minister for Information & Broadcasting, Firdous Ashiq Awan, has said that China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) is the first priority of government. She stated Pakistan did not agree with the US on concerns related to CPEC. The project would guarantee the economic prosperity of the country, which would open new avenues of prosperity for the region. (front page, 200 words approx.)

Tourism introduces as an industry in KP, say chief minister

The KP Chief Minister Mahmood Khan has said that government is working on its reforms agenda in the province. He said that government has introduced tourism as an industry in the province. He added that government is also promoting small scale businesses in the province. He said the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) is the first political party which worked for the welfare of the people in real sense. (front page, 200 words approx. )

Custom House to be built at Angoor Adda post

Government has started preparation for the establishment of a Custom House at Angoor Adda post, in South Waziristan near Pakistan-Afghanistan border. The tribal elders signed an agreement in the office of Assistant Commissioner Wana town with government. The tribe has provided 150 Kanal (approx. 18 acres) of land for establishment of the custom house. Local administration said the establishment of the custom house would help in creation of jobs in the region. (front page, 140 words approx.)

[Khabroona is owned by the Peshawar-based Subh Group, which also publishes the Urdu daily Subh. It provides good coverage to both sides of the Durand Line (the Pakistan-Afghan frontier), with a focus on Pashtun issues. It provides a balanced mix of anti-Taliban and pro-Taliban opinion.]

Hewad

Islamist party announces call for protest in Islamabad

The chief of Jamaat-i-Islami (JI) Sirajul haq has announced protest march towards the federal capital Islamabad. He said that the protest march would be in support for the people of the Indian-administered Kashmir people, and the rising inflation. He said that they would march to Islamabad on 22 December. He stated a certain class is ruling the country from 72 years, which has resulted in unemployment and inflation. (front page, 180 words approx.)

Mafia becoming hindrance in accountability: Foreign Minister

Pakistan's Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi has said that mafia is trying to create hurdles in process of accountability. He also rejected the U.S statement on China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) and said CPEC is a game changer project for the region. He added that work on the project would continue and it would be extended. (front page, 200 words approx.)

Foreign Ministry directed to contact OIC over Quran sacrilege

Prime Minister (PM) Imran Khan has directed Foreign Office to contact Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) in the matter of Quran [holy text of Islam] desecration. The core committee meeting under the chairmanship of Prime Minister Imran Khan discussed political and economic situation of the country. The meeting also discussed the rising inflation in the country. While addressing the meeting, Prime Minister Imran khan said provocations against Islam will not be tolerated. (front page, 200 words approx.)

[Hewad is Pakistan's oldest Pashto newspaper, and gives equal coverage to both sides of the Durand Line (the Pakistan-Afghanistan frontier), with a focus on Pashtuns and religion.]

Tribal News Network

JUI-F chief calls all parties conference on 26 November

The Jamiat Ulema-i-Islam(Fazl) (JUI-F) chief Maulana Fazlur Rehman has announced an All Parties Conference (APC) on 26 November. A statement issued by the JUI-F said that the JUI-F chief has contacted the Pakistan People's Party (PPP) Chairman and Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) General Secretary for the conference. Other opposition parties would also participate in the APC. (front page, 220 words approx.)

Few days left in dissolution of Government: QWP Chairman

The Qaumi Watan Party (QWP) Chairman Aftab Ahmad Sherpao has said the JUI-F protest march has created fear in the heart of government and a number of days are left in the dissolution of current government. He said the government has taken too many debts that have no precedence in the past. He added that the economic team failed in its policies. (front page, 200 words approx.)

Seventh-deadline for BRT project completion

Despite several deadlines the Peshawar Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) project has not been completed. The new deadline for contractors is March 2020. Before the current tenure, the government has given six deadlines for the completion of project. According to the official, work on 14 out of the 37 bus station has been completed so far and rest of the stations are expected to be completed in December this year. (front page, 180 words approx.)

[Tribal News Network (TNN) is a Peshawar-based online multimedia news agency. It provides news from Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and the erstwhile tribal areas and focusses on their issues and problems. It was established in 2014 to serve radio audiences through partner FM radio stations and has now evolved into a news portal.]

Mashriq Leads (Prime Time Talk Show on Mashriq TV at 14:00 GMT)

JUI-F to announce Plan C against government

Anchor Salman Ali Shah said the JUI-F has announced earlier that after Plan A and Plan B, they would uncover their Plan C on 24 November. The JUI-F leader Akram Khan Durrani said it was all over the news that Plan A remained successful and now its impacts were visible. He said soon people would get to know the good news about the dissolution of government. He said under plan C they would not block any roads, they would just demand PM resignation.

Death Anniversary of artist Rauf Khalid observed

Anchor Shah said today [24 November] is the death anniversary of the veteran actor, writer and director Rauf Khalid. He added for his services in the art, Rauf Khalid was also awarded with presidential award.

Journalist Zia Ullah said the dramas he wrote are still popular among the people. He said Khalid always focussed on content and quality of work.

Veteran artists deprived of government attention

Anchor Shah said that the famous writer of Pashto-language Awnar Siyal is suffering from various diseases and was hospitalised due to bad health condition. Journalist Johar Shah said government claims of welfare of the artists, but the veteran artists such Anwar Siyal are deprived of government attention. He said government should help such artists who have worked life-long for the promotion of language.

[Mashriq TV is a Pashto-language channel launched in August 2016 and is a partner station of the BBC. It is owned by the Mashriq group of newspapers which also publishes English-language daily The Statement. The channel is observed to carry balanced reporting with no overt leanings towards any political party or group.]

Source: in Pashto 25 Nov 19