Source: The News International
Publisher: The News International, Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019 The News International 
Publication Date: Dec 10, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,laho,punjab,india,asiaz,bric,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Metro train trial run: It's victory of common man against privileged elite, says Shahbaz Sharif

Snippet: On the trial run day of the Orange Line Metro Train (OLMT) on Tuesday, former chief minister Punjab Shahbaz Sharif, the architect of the initiative, termed it a victory of the common man against the privileged elite, 'which threw a spanner in the works of the public welfare project'.

'As a Lahori and someone who invested his time and energy in the Orange Line project, I congratulate the people of Lahore and Pakistan on its second trial run today,' he said in a series of tweets from London after soft opening of the metro train in Lahore.

Body: 
Pakistan Muslim League-N (PML-N) President and opposition leader in the National Assembly claimed that his party's government in Punjab had got a further discount of Rs70 billion in the overall project cost from the lowest bidder after hectic negotiations. He said it was a tangible saving, reflective of PML-N's commitment to saving every single penny in the public sector projects.

The trial run of 27-km long OLMT, starting from Dera Gujran and culminating at Ali Town, Raiwind Road, will take a few months for full operationalisation of the train. Engineers will review safety audit of the construction infrastructure, power system and other parts of the project before clearing it for formal launch of the train service for the general public.

Shahbaz said in another tweet that Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (PPRA) rules did not allow negotiations, his government in Punjab still went for a hard bargain. 'The total money saved in the projects during my tenure is over Rs680 billion,' he claimed. Shahbaz said the Orange Line project could have been completed two years ago had the PTI not dragged it in courts, which kept the work suspended for over 18 months.

Shahbaz said the Orange Line project would stay as a living symbol of all-weather iron brotherhood between Pakistan and China. 'I remember President Xi and Premier Li described the OLMT as a gift of Chinese people for Pakistan,' he said, and thanked Chinese leadership and ambassadors to Pakistan over their cooperation and facilitation.

He also showered praise on all officers, engineers and labourers for their hard work on the project. PML-N central spokesperson Marriyum Aurangzeb said Prime Minister Imran Khan and Punjab Chief Minister Usman Buzdar were hesitant to inaugurate the Metro Train project, but they felt no shame in placing their plaques on the PML-N projects. She said Shahbaz Sharif established five metro bus and train projects, while the incompetent and inefficient leadership of PTI had only given pits and potholes to the people of Peshawar at the cost of one billion rupees in five years.

She said Shahbaz Sharif had already performed trial run of Orange Line Train on May 16, 2018, the PTI government could not make it fully operational for 15 months. Separately, PML-N Punjab Information Secretary Azma Bukhari submitted a resolution in the Punjab Assembly to pay tribute to Shahbaz Sharif for starting Orange Line Train in Lahore.

Meanwhile, the PML-N workers had arranged gatherings along the 27-km long train route at various points to celebrate the OLMT trial run. Banners and placards were displayed in the entire city, especially along the train route to pay tributes to the PML-N leadership.

The party workers performed bhangra and chanted slogans in favour of Nawaz Sharif and Shahbaz Sharif over their public service projects.