Source: Daily Balochistan Express
Publisher: Asianet-Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Daily Balochistan Express, Quetta 
Publication Date: Oct 02, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,karch,usa,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,namz,sasiaz,

Title: Chinese gives 200000 US Dollars aid to Gwadar fishermen

Snippet: The Consulate General of the People's Republic China in Karachi on behalf of the People and the government of the People's Republic of China realizing the economic hardship of Gwadar fishermen has gifted goods worth US Dollars 200000 including boat power engines, solar handy lights, small home solar system and fishing nets etc., with a hope that these small gifts will help the local population to gain some relief out of their day-to-day difficulties, the goods would support substantial fishermen population, while Chinese government has pledged further aid for Balochistan including Gwadar Port City under socio-economic development phase of CPEC, which addresses the issues that people are facing.

Body: 
Consul General of the People's Republic of China Mr Wang Yu presented the goods at a simple ceremony in Karachi to Khudadad Wajo, Chairman of Gwadar Fishermen Alliance and fishermen representatives, while also present were Sardar Shoukat Popalzai, President of Balochistan Economic Forum and Baboo Gulab, Prominent city leader and former Nazim Gwadar.

Consul General in his remarks said that the relationship between China and Pakistan can be best described as promising, flourishing and turning out to be a success story. Over the years, this unique friendship has transformed into a strong strategic partnership aspiring to have robust economic cooperation and increasing people to people contacts.

The strategic ties between Pakistan and China have been on an upward trajectory with moved thrust on economic interaction after the initiation of China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), CPEC would also address the economic backwardness of the province of Balochistan. The people would have an economic progress and would get opportunities to enjoy the fruits of economic development. The natural resources and prospecting economic sectors of the province would be explored and would further enhance the strategic and economic location of Balochistan. CPEC would open job opportunities for the youth of Balochistan province that would acquire modern innovative skills in the future.

Under CPEC Gwadar sees physical infrastructure growth, a new International airport, a new University, a new hospital, which will benefit local people in the near future. But right now, due to their economic conditions they are still not able afford to buy necessary equipment like fishing net, motors for boats etc. to improve their livelihood.

Consul General further said that In consideration of their difficulties, on behalf of the People's Republic of China, the gift is presented to fishermen from Gwadar for the urgently needed necessities to provide relief in their socio-economic needs, the good will gesture of the people of the People's Republic China he believe will be well received at this crucial time.

While the China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) has been welcomed with open arms, Gwadar the small fishing town located near the Arabian Sea and a vital part of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), has witnessed a great change during the last five years with a number of completed projects, including the first phase of the free zone, the fishermen in Gwadar today make up 80 per cent of the total population of 200,000, CPEC's main target is to bring people oriented developments, and CPEC has transformed Gwadar into an energetic town from a lethargic village, economic activities in Gwadar are giving direct monetary benefits to locals, the fishing business is expected to boom resulting in economic uplift of the locals of Gwadar, once the under-construction East Bay Expressway, linking the new Gwadar International airport and the free zone with the country's national highway network, is completed, their fish business would flourish further, and CPEC's commitment would be fulfilled.

The leader of Fishermen Alliance has highly appreciated this gesture of the People's Republic of China, the local political and tribal leadership has said that only true friends can offer such support and the People's republic of China has proved that.