Source: Economist Intelligence Unit - ViewsWire
Publisher: The Economist Intelligence Unit, N.A., Inc.
Byline: 
Copyright: (C) 2019 The Economist Intelligence Unit Ltd. 
Publication Date: Nov 10, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Pakistan politics: Quick View - Pakistan and China review CPEC

Snippet: Event

On November 6th the ninth meeting of the Joint Co-operation Committee (JCC) of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) concluded in Pakistan's capital, Islamabad.

Body: 
Analysis

The JCC-the highest-level joint Chinese-Pakistani body connected with the CPEC-sets policy objectives and oversees the implementation of the CPEC initiative that began in 2016. During the latest meeting, a development plan to turn the strategically located Gwadar port-a key component of the CPEC-into a city was approved. This comes after a Chinese firm operating the port was granted a 23-year income tax holiday by the Pakistani government in October. Another development was the inauguration of a major new motorway completed with Chinese funding, which now connects the southern cities of Multan and Sukkur.

The most significant decision taken at the JCC meeting was that Pakistan would take a loan from China worth an estimated US$9bn to undertake the Main Railway Line (ML-1) project. The ML-1 is an ambitious enterprise to upgrade Pakistan's entire existing railway line infrastructure, and is the largest CPEC project in terms of estimated cost. Work on the project is scheduled to begin by mid-2020 and is estimated to take five to six years to complete.

The outcomes of the ninth JCC meeting were in line with our view that the CPEC initiative will continue to focus on large-scale energy and infrastructure projects. Regarding the ML-1 project specifically, it is unclear at present whether the Chinese government or other Chinese financial institutions-including commercial and non-commercial banks-will finance it. In either case, we expect the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf-led government to face difficulties in executing the project. Pakistan faces a growing public debt burden and stringent fiscal constraints, toughened under the ongoing IMF programme. Overall, we maintain our view that these constraints are likely to slow the pace of CPEC projects over the forecast period, although China's broader role in Pakistan's economy will continue to grow.