Source: Pakistan Today
Publisher: Nawa Media (Pvt.) Limited
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Nawa Media (PVT.) Limited. 
Publication Date: Jan 27, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,laho,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: CPEC will continue fueling growth of Pakistan's construction industry over next decade: Fitch Solutions

Snippet: A report released by Fitch Solutions on Monday said improved transparency regarding China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) will continue fueling the growth of Pakistan's construction industry over the course of the next decade.

The research agency highlighted that since the execution of CPEC in 2013, the megaproject has various challenges emanating in huge downside risks to many projects.

Body: 
Notwithstanding, these challenges eleven CPEC project termed as early harvest projects have been finished so far, said the report.

It said despite major media and political scrutiny regarding CPEC, this progress on projects highlights Beijing's improving track record in project execution and its dedication towards infrastructure development in Pakistan.

According to Fitch Solutions, CPEC projects have exhibited good progress in terms of implementation; since a total of 3,240MW of capacity had been added to the country's national grid, constituting for over 11% of total installed capacity in Pakistan.

Additionally, the research agency highlighted the 392-kilometre Multan to Sukkur section of the Peshawar-Karachi motorway, a key CPEC project is over 80% complete and is slated to finish by August this year.

Fitch Solutions believes continuing Chinese involvement in the country's construction market will be positive in the shape of timeliness and implementation and will continue to enhance the growth of the construction industry in the near future.

Talking about the debt related concerns to CPEC projects, the research agency said they will start to decrease on the back of improving transparency.

It highlighted a media report published in December 2018 pertaining to Pakistan's governments' debt to China purportedly given to be in the region of $40 billion.

In response to this, Pakistan's Ministry of Planning, Development and Reform followed by the Chinese embassy in Islamabad released statements clarifying the total value of the above-mentioned 22 early harvest projects finished and under construction to be around $18.9 billion, said Fitch Solutions.

Moreover, $6 billion of loan which accounted for 32% of total value were provided by the Chinese government and will be repaid over 20-25 years from 2021 at an interest rate of around 2%, said the report.

According to Samiullah Tariq, Head of Research at Arif Habib Limited (AHL), the report from Fitch Solutions has clarified a lot of doubts regarding transparency of CPEC financing and would help take the project forward besides making it more sustainable.

'Transparency is good for all stakeholders, financiers, government media etc.

However, the data was already available in bits and pieces, it's just that it has been provided in a collective form and disseminated,' he added.