Source: The Balochistan Times
Publisher: Asianet-Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 The Balochistan Times 
Publication Date: Apr 04, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,laho,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Govt facilitating investors through reforms: Aslam Iqbal

Snippet: Punjab Minister for Industries, Commerce and Investment Mian Mohammad Aslam Iqbal said on Thursday that the government was facilitating investors through various reforms and several multinational companies had started entering Pakistan in different sectors.

He said this while addressing a meeting held between representatives from China Railway 20 Co.

Body: 
Pakistan (Pvt) Limited, Shanghai Yuanyi Industry Company Limited and Pak-China Investment Company Limited at Punjab Board of Investment and Trade (PBIT) here.

A four-party Cooperation Framework Agreement was also signed between China Railway 20 Co. Pakistan (Pvt) Limited, Shanghai Yuanyi Industry Company Limited, Pak-China Investment Company Limited and Punjab Board of Investment and Trade (PBIT).

The minister said that this project would also provide facilities to the industry and create a major breakthrough by generating at least 5,000 jobs in this sector.

Increase in exports was the topmost priority of the present government and this project would prove instrumental in this connection, he said.

Aslam Iqbal said ease of doing business, pro-investment initiatives and restructuring of the taxation system would greatly help promote investment and exports from Pakistan.

The participants of the meeting expressed a mutual resolve to work together and take things forward in a positive manner.

Chinese Consul General Long Dingbin assured that China would continue to remain a strong partner in Pakistan's development.

On this occasion, Chinese investors said that there was no deficiency of talent in Pakistan and added that this project would also transfer the latest technology in the country.

Collaboration with the Punjab government would be further extended, they said, adding that conducive atmosphere was available in Punjab for investment and trade.

A four-party Cooperation Framework Agreement was also signed between China Railway 20 Co. Pakistan (Pvt) Limited, Shanghai Yuanyi Industry Company Limited, Pak-China Investment Company Limited and Punjab Board of Investment and Trade (PBIT).

It is pertinent to mention here that recognizing Pakistan's potential as the world's 4th largest cotton producer, Chinese investors have shown interest in investing in the Punjab province.

All participants in the meeting were also briefed about the core functions of the PBIT as an Investment Promotion Agency.