Source: Frontier Star
Publisher: Frontier Star Publisher
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 Asianet-Pakistan 
Publication Date: Apr 17, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,easiaz,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: All parties have accord on CPEC; it will bring progress in country: Mushahid Hussain

Snippet: Chairman senate standing committee for Interior Senator Mushahid Hussain Syed has said that all parties have accord on China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), saying that it will bring progress in the country. Ambassador of China to Pakistan Yao Jing said that China will help Pakistan in every difficulty, saying that mutual relations of both the countries will further strengthen with CPEC.

Senator Mushahid Hussain Syed, Ambassador of China to Pakistan Yao Jing, former diplomat Syed Hassan Javaid, President Strategic Vision Institute (SVI) Dr Zafar Iqbal Cheema, Dr Shabana Fiyaz, Lt. general (retd) Khalid Naeem Lodhi and others addressed at a book launching ceremony in Islamabad on Wednesday, the book on CPEC titled 'CPEC-A precursor to regional economic growth and stability' was written by Strategic Vision Institute.

Body: 
Mushahid Hussain Syed said that CPEC has helped Pakistan becoming hub of regional connectivity and after completion of the mega project, the country would set on the path of rapid development.

He said the US has poured over $600 billion in Iraq, Libya and other wars; however China remained focused on infrastructural development of the region.

'The project of CPEC is the ample proof of friendly ties and harmony between the two countries,' he said adding that after launch of the project, Pakistan's infrastructure and energy sector became more strengthened.

Mushahid said once the whole project is completed, Russia and all Central Asian states would mostly rely on Gwadar port to execute their international trade

He said that China helped Pakistan in every difficult time. He said that when Pakistan was prey to terrorism in 2013 and even no Muslim country was ready for investment in Pakistan, China, at that time, launched CPEC like project in Pakistan.

He said that industrial zones will be set up in the next phase of CPEC which will bring further progress, saying that the term of new cold war is being used with regard to China which is not true at any cost.

Mushahid Hussain said that China has neither expressed aggressive designs against any country nor did aggression against any country in the past decades.

While addressing on the occasion, ambassador of China to Pakistan Yao Jing said that the visit of Prime Minister Imran Khan to China scheduled in next week, would further enhance the bilateral cooperation in China Pakistan Economic Corridor projects.

He said during the visit, a number of Memorandum of Understandings (MoUs) would be signed for initiating new projects of social sector under the CPEC.

The envoy pointed out that CPEC is now being made open for the investors from around the world.

The Chinese ambassador said hundreds of vocational centers in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan are being upgraded to prepare skilled labour in Pakistan to fulfill the growing need of skilled workers in the upcoming CPEC projects.

He said as many as eight companies are working jointly with the Pakistani companies in the flagship project of Chinese grand Belt and Road Initiative (BRI).

The Chinese envoy pointed out that due to joint efforts, the two countries succeeded in evolving joint policies as the CPEC has provided a new platform for mutual cooperation.

While addressing on the occasion, former diplomat Syed Hassan Javaid said that Indians wrote nine books on CPEC and this the first book written by any Pakistani on CPEC. He said that CPEC project is included in the strategic projects.