Source: Press Association National Newswire
Publisher: The Press Association Limited
Byline: 
Copyright: (c)2019, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved 
Publication Date: Oct 01, 2019

Region Codes: ,london,afgh,birmi,bol,cypr,dalian,iraq,ire,maurts,pakis,uk,africaz,apacz,asiaz,bric,casiaz,china,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,eafrz,easiaz,eecz,eland,eurz,gulfstz,indsubz,lamz,liaon,meastz,medz,samz,sasiaz,wasiaz,weurz,

Title: DIARY FOR WEDNESDAY OCTOBER 2

Snippet: Good morning from the PA. Here is the diary for Wednesday October 2.

CITY: Interims: Tesco. Trading update: Topps Tiles.

Body: 
AFRICA: Duke and Duchess of Sussex on final day of royal tour to Africa. They will meet Graca Machel, widow of the late former President Mandela. The Duke last met with Mrs Machel in South Africa in 2015. The couple will attend an afternoon reception to celebrate the UK and South Africa's business and investment relationship, looking ahead to the Africa Investment Summit the UK will host in 2020. To close the tour, Harry and Meghan will attend an audience with President Cyril Ramaphosa and his wife Dr Tshepo Motsepe. They will depart for London this evening.

Words, stills and video planned

MANCHESTER: Final day of Conservative Party Conference. 1000 Session on strengthening the union, featuring Northern Ireland Secretary Julian Smith, Welsh Secretary Alun Cairns and Scottish Secretary Alister Jack. 1045 Session on celebrating the contribution of women in the Conservative Party featuring Gillian Keegan, Maria Miller, Minister for Women Victoria Atkins, Caroline Johnson and Lords Leader Baroness Evans of Bowes Park. 1140 The Prime Minister's keynote speech. Manchester Convention Centre.

Words, stills and video planned

LONDON: Headmasters' and Headmistresses' Conference (HMC) Autumn Conference. The Intercontinental 02, London. Sue Bishop sueb@hmc.org.uk.

SANDWICH: Inquest into the death of Dajahnel Young at Margate. The Guildhall, CT13 9AH.

Words planned

CRAWLEY: Inquests (x9) into patient deaths connected to sacked doctor. Nine inquests for patients of consultant urologist Paul Miller, who was sacked in 2014 by East Surrey Hospital over the treatment he provided. Inquests listed together Centenary House, Woodfield Road, Crawley, RH10 8GP.

Words planned

LONDON: BFI London Film Festival.

CYPRUS: British teenager on trial accused of false rape claim. A 19 year-old British woman pleaded not guilty in a Cyprus court on August 27 to a public mischief charge for making what prosecutors say was a false claim that she was raped by 12 Israelis at a holiday resort on the east Mediterranean island nation.

PA reporter staffing for words, stills and video

The following trial was brought forward and started on September 23 - LONDON: Provisional trial date for alleged hi-jacker stowaways. Samuel Jolumi, 26, Ishola Sunday, 27, Toheeb Popoola, 26, and Joberto McGee, 20, are accused of attempting to hijack a cargo ship that was swooped on by special forces in the Thames Estuary on December 21. The Old Bailey, London, EC4M 7EH. 020 7248 3277.

BIRMINGHAM: Inquest not sitting today for soldier who collapsed during eight-mile training march. Corporal Joshua Hoole, aged 26, was pronounced dead on July 19, 2016 at the Infantry Battle School in Brecon, Powys. Cpl Hoole, of Ecclefechan, near Lockerbie, had served in Afghanistan and Iraq with 1 Rifles. The inquest commenced on October, but recommences on Friday, October 4. Not sitting on October 2-3. Maple House, 150 Corporation Street, Birmingham, B4 6BT. Coroner's officer Karen Jones 0121 303 2696.

LONDON: Jury site visit in trial of man charged with murder of missing mother-of-five. Ben Lacomba, aged 38, from Bazes Shaw, New Ash Green, is accused of killing Sarah Wellgreen, 46. Mr Lacomba, who was arrested on 16 October in connection with the investigation, was re-arrested on December 20 2018. Jury site visit on Wednesday morning of defendant's address at Bazes Shaw with case back in court for approximately 2.30pm for the rest of the opening. Woolwich Crown Court, 2 Belmarsh Road, Woolwich, London, SE28 0EY.

Pool words and video expected

LONDON: Plea hearing for man accused of stabbing his heavily pregnant former girlfriend. Aaron McKenzie, 25, accepts responsibility for the death of Kelly Mary Fauvrelle, 26. Royal Mail worker Ms Fauvrelle was stabbed to death in the bedroom of her home in Thornton Heath, south London, on June 29. The defendant, from Peckham, south London, is charged with murder, manslaughter and possession of an offensive weapon. Provisional trial December 2. The Old Bailey, 32 Old Bailey, London.

Words planned

CANTERBURY: Pregnant woman murder trial. Andrew Griggs, 56, denied killing Debbie Griggs, 34, on May 5 1999. On bail. Duncan Atkinson QC prosecuting. Canterbury Crown Court, Chaucer Road, Canterbury, Kent, CT1 1ZA.

STONEHAVEN: Prince Charles visits Stonehaven. The Duke of Rothesay will open the new headquarters of W M Donald, a family run construction and civil engineering business and later will visit local businesses in Stonehaven town centre with the Duchess of Rothesay. W M Donald Limited, Marrlaine, Netherley, AB39 3QN. Ella Lynch, Clarence House Communications Office, 020 7024 4353 / 07392 087141 ella.lynch@royal.uk.

Words and stills planned

LONDON: The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge to attend a special event hosted by The Aga Khan at the Aga Khan Centre ahead of their official visit to Pakistan. The event will showcase modern Pakistani culture. Aga Khan Centre, King's Cross, London.

Words, stills and video planned

BIRMINGHAM: Two men to go on trial charged with damaging hospital electrical cables. Thomas Kiely, 27, from Tower Hamlets, London and James Kiely, 37, of Shipston on Stour, Warwickshire, have been charged with criminal damage with intent to endanger life. The charges follow a Kent Police inquiry into an incident on February 20 in which power lines were damaged at the Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother Hospital in Ramsgate Road, Margate. In custody. Three-day trial. Birmingham Crown Court, 1 Newton Street, Birmingham, B4 7NA.

0001 CITY: BRC Retail Price Index.

Words planned

0830 LONDON: Photo call and preview for the 1-54 Contemporary African Art Fair at Somerset House. Somerset House, Strand, London, WC2R 1LA. Nicole Sireilles, nicole@suttoncomms.com.

0930 LONDON: Preliminary hearing in case of 33-year-old charged with inciting terrorism in Germany. Fatah Mohammed Abdullah, from the Arthur's Hill area of Newcastle, is accused of encouraging another person to plough a car into crowds, attack people with a meat cleaver and set off bombs. Before Mr Justice Jay. Two-week trial fixed for November 11. The Old Bailey, 32 Old Bailey, London.

0930 CITY: UK construction PMIs for September.

Words planned

1000 READING: Inquest into death of pregnant woman who died after laying down on railway track. Zdenka Yabani, 39, reportedly died after buying a ticket and walking from the platform onto tracks at Slough station. Listed for three days before assistant coroner Alison McCormick. Victorian Gallery, Reading Town Hall, Blagrave Street, RG1 1QH.

The following was brought forward and heard on Monday - 1000: Sea snake death inquest. Harry Evans, 23, died after being bitten by a sea snake in Australia in October last year. Mr Evans, from Poole, Dorset was bitten while working on a trawler off the coast of the Northern Territory on Thursday. Listed for 90 minutes. Dorset Coroner's Court, Town Hall, Bourne Ave, Bournemouth, BH2 6EB.

1000 EDINBURGH: Rare Darwin book to go on sale. A first edition of Charles Darwin's On the Origin of Species will be on show for a photocall ahead of an auction on October 9. Lyon and Turbull, 33 Broughton Place,, EH1 3RR. philip.gregory@lyonandturnbull.com.

1000: Teenage boy to stand trial for murdering motorcyclist. The 16-year-old, who cannot be named for legal reasons, is accused of murder over a crash in Hartcliffe, Bristol, that left Michael-Lee Rice dead. He is also charged with causing a danger to road users. In custody. Bristol Crown Court, The Law Courts, Small St, Bristol, BS1 1DA.

1000 SHEFFIELD: Two people due to go on trial charged in connection with the death of a 22-month-old girl. Jonathan Garner, 25, from Hull, is accused of murdering Mia Gregson who died at her home in Hull in February 2014. Mia's mother Samantha Gregson, 25, from Chesterfield, is charged with causing or allowing her daughter's death. Sheffield Crown Court, The Law Courts, 50 West Bar, Sheffield, South Yorkshire, S3 8PH.

1030 BIRMINGHAM: Man to go on trial charged with damaging hospital electrical cables. James Kiely, 37, of Shipston on Stour, Warwickshire, was charged with criminal damage with intent to endanger life. The charge follow a Kent Police inquiry into an incident on February 20 in which power lines were damaged at the Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother Hospital in Ramsgate Road, Margate. In custody. Birmingham Crown Court, 1 Newton Street, Birmingham, B4 7NA.

1030 NEWCASTLE: Trial of woman charged with murdering her mother. Odessa Carey, 35, of no fixed address, was arrested after a body was found in Ashington, Northumberland, on Monday April 8. The body, found in a house in Links View, was that of Odessa Carey, 73. Newcastle Crown Court, NE22 7LX.

1100 LONDON: Ex-Thomas Cook employees to lobby MPs at protest in Westminster. Representatives from every sector of the Thomas Cook business, including crew members, ground staff, administrators and engineers, will urge MPs to insist on an urgent inquiry into the travel firm's collapse. Former employees will gather in Westminster from 1100. Westminster, SW1A 0AA. Julie Burns email: julieburns3627@gmail.com mob:07889806834.

Words, stills and video planned

The following hearing has moved to December 17 - 1100 SHREWSBURY: Pre-inquest review over death of Dalian Atkinson. Shropshire Coroner John Ellery will hold a pre-inquest hearing into the death of 48-year-old Mr Atkinson in August 2016. The former Aston Villa, Sheffield Wednesday and Ipswich striker died at the Princess Royal Hospital in Telford. The Independent Office for Police Conduct is investigating the death of Mr Atkinson, which followed an incident in Trench, Telford, during which police deployed a Taser. Shrewsbury Coroner's Court, Shirehall, Abbey Foregate, SY2 6ND.

1200 MAIDSTONE: Inquest - Bolivia salt flats death. Inquest into the death of Freddie McLennan, one of two British teenagers who died when their car flipped over while being driven on Bolivia's famous Salar de Uyuni - the world's largest salt flat. The Archbishop's Palace, Maidstone, ME15 6YE.

1200 LONDON: Prime Minister's Questions. House of Commons.

1300 NEW YORK: Microsoft Surface event. Microsoft holding a media event in New York where the tech firm is expected to reveal a new line-up of new Surface tablet and laptop devices.

1400 NORWICH: Parents of convicted teenage hacker due to be sentenced for transferring criminal property. Elliott Gunton's mother Carlie, 44, and father Jason, 45, admitted the charge at separate earlier hearings. Jason Gunton also admitted perverting the course of justice. Elliott Gunton was sentenced in August 2018 to 20 months in prison and ordered to pay back more than £400,000 for hacking offences. Norwich Crown Court, The Law Courts, Bishopgate, Norwich, Norfolk, NR3 1UR.

1400 BURTON: Pre-Inquest review into death of serial criminal who killed two youngsters. Robert Brown admitted causing the deaths of Corey and Casper Platt-May, aged six and two, by dangerous driving on February 22 in 2018. Burton Town Hall, Burton Upon Trent, DE14 2EB.

1800 LONDON: BFI London Film Festival opener - The Personal History of David Copperfield. Guest include director Armando Iannucci and cast Dev Patel, Ben Wishaw, Hugh Laurie, Gwendoline Christie and Peter Capaldi. Odeon Luxe Leicester Square. LFFRedcarpet1@ddapr.com.

Words, stills and video planned

1840 LONDON: Launch event for launch for the second instalment of Philip's bestselling Book of Dust series. Guest include Anne-Marie Duff and Raffiella Chapman. The evening will culminate in a Q&A with Pullman. Alexandra Palace Theatre, Alexandra Palace Way, London, N22 7AY. Hephzibah Kwakye-Saka, hephzibah@riotcommunications.com.

2100: The Apprentice starts. New series of Lord Sugar's business competition show launches on BBC One.

Words planned

PARLIAMENT

House of Commons

1130 International Development questions

1200 Prime Minister's Questions

1245 A 10-minute rule motion on Public Expenditure and Taxation (Advisory Body)

1300 Domestic Abuse Bill - second reading

A short debate on Welsh language

Westminster Hall

0930 Role of community pharmacies

1100 Proposed changes to free movement of EU nationals

1430 Trophy hunting imports

1600 Progress on leasehold and commonhold reform

1630 Performance of child maintenance service in recovering payments from absent parents

House of Lords

1500 Oral questions

1530 A debate on the UK's withdrawal from the EU

CITY

Interims: Tesco.

Trading update: Topps Tiles.

0001: BRC Retail Price Index.

0930: UK construction PMIs for September.

FEATURES

BOOK Reviews: This week's bookcase includes reviews of The Secrets We Kept by Lara Prescott, and Serotonin by Michel Houellebecq. Also includes the week's Book Charts and a Children's Book of the Week. With pictures.

SHOWBIZ Music Savoretti: Jack Savoretti has been a stalwart of the pub and cafe circuit for nearly 15 years. But recent times have seen the Londoner of Italian heritage rediscover his Mediterranean roots in music - and play the largest gig of his career at Wembley. We speak to the singer-songwriter about how his music has evolved and the threat the UK faces over Brexit. With pictures.

SHOWBIZ Music Reviews: We take a listen to rising Irish singer-songwriter Dermot Kennedy's hotly-anticipated debut album Without Fear, while this week, there is also a new release from The Darkness, Easter Is Cancelled. With pictures.

FOOD Liam Charles: Former Great British Bake Off contestant Liam Charles won hearts on the show two years ago and he's gone on to judge Bake Off: The Professionals and Junior Bake Off. He may be known for sweet treats, but he's back with his second book - and this time he's showing off his savoury side. Lauren Taylor catches up with the 22-year-old to find out how his life has changed since the show. With pictures.

FOOD Recipe Sea Dogs: A twist on the classic hot dog, Liam's sea dogs are made with crab patties and king prawns. With pictures.

FOOD Recipe Cauliflower: Salads can absolutely be indulgent and this one combines deep-fried cauliflower nuggets, blue cheese and a creamy dressing. With pictures.

FOOD Recipe Key Lime: You don't always need an ice cream maker to make ice cream. This recipe combines the flavours of white chocolate, lime and ginger to make an easy-as-you-like sweet treat. With pictures.

DRINK Sober: With the trend for 'low and no' wines and spirits, and the mindful drinking movement gathering pace, Sam Wylie-Harris raises a glass to the joys of missing out, and rounds up the best non-alcoholic serves to celebrate Sober October. With pictures.

HEALTH Alcoholism: Recovered alcoholic Susan Laurie talks candidly about her long struggle with alcoholism, how she was certain the booze was going to kill her, and how she finally managed to drag herself from the depths of her addiction, regain her health and write From Rock Bottom To Sober Forever. With pictures.

WELLBEING Hobson: As many as 16 million UK adults are suffering from sleepless nights as a third say they have insomnia - yet tackling the issue can often be easier said than done. Liz Connor speaks to former insomniac and nutritionist Rob Hobson, who has used his personal experience of insomnia, along with his background in health, to pen The Art Of Sleeping, a new book that equips readers with tips on how to say goodbye to sleepless nights. With pictures.

WELLBEING Susie Dent: Wordsmith Susie Dent, who's appeared in Dictionary Corner on Channel 4 game show Countdown for 27 years, and also has a regular giggle on 8 Out Of 10 Cats Does Countdown, discusses her love of words, vegetarianism and the great outdoors, plus how she's hoping a Guide Dogs campaign will help people with sight problems get out and enjoy the natural world as much as she does. With pictures.

TRAVEL Mauritius: Mountain hikes, Tai Chi lessons and strolls along the beach make Mauritius an invigorating delight, says Priya Joshi. With pictures.

TRAVEL Scotland: On a mission to celebrate forgotten female explorers, adventurer Elise Wortley tackles a multi-day hike through the Cairngorms, replicating a journey made by Scottish novelist Nan Shepherd. With pictures.

NOSTALGIA NFL: As the NFL plays its 100th season amid whispers of a UK-based franchise, we trawl through the history of the all-American sport in the world's most lucrative league. With pictures.