Source: Frontier Star
Publisher: Frontier Star Publisher
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 Asianet-Pakistan 
Publication Date: May 06, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Pakistan Govt urged to focus more on Industrial growth to improve economy

Snippet: These were the words of Mr. Lijian Zhao, Deputy Head of Mission to Chinese Embassy during a seminar organized by Zalmi Foundation (ZF). ZF organized a debriefing seminar on 'Belt and Road Initiative Summit at Islamabad Hotel.

The seminar discussed the outcomes of second BRI summit which included forums on Trade and investments, signing of new FTA between Pakistan and China establishments of Special Economic Zones in Pakistan, Social sector development and Encouraging third party investments in CPEC project.

Body: 
Zhao also commended the efforts made by Haier and Ruba digital in establishing the first economic zone in Pakistan and Zalmi foundation with regards to conducting discussion on BRI to remove confusions surrounding it.

The introductory remarks were given by the Executive Director of Zalmi Foundation Shakeel Ramay who shed a light on the Global role of China. He stated that China is championing the cause of Globalization with the BRI project at a time when the phenomenon of multilateralism is suffering. He also stressed on conducting the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) Forum annually which will bring together more players towards BRI. The Seminar also brought forth a paper published by the Zalmi foundation titled 'Eco-civilization and CPEC'

Lijian Zhao, Deputy Head of Mission to Chinese Embassy was the keynote speaker at the debriefing seminar. He highlighted the gaps which are needed to be filled prior to improving the economic standing of Pakistan. Mr Zhao explained three stages of CPEC. First stage being developing infrastructure in the shape of mega projects. Second being the social sector development and final stage which would encourage third party investment in CPEC.

Talking about the new Free Trade Agreement signed between Pakistan and China during Prime Minister's Imran Khan latest visit, He said that the new FTA was in Pakistan's favor, allowing an increase of Pakistani exports to China on zero tariffs. He suggested that Pakistan should focus on other exports to China other than the general exports. He said fruits such as Mangoes and Kinnows as well as Basmati rice have the potential to gain a large market in China. For that to happen, Pakistan should improve its marketing strategy as well to compete with other competitors.

Hassan Daud, Focal person on CPEC, also endorsed the viewpoint of Mr. Zhao. He provided details of the BRI forum held in China. He said that the level of interest among other countries is continuously growing, which was evident with increased participation of Middle Eastern countries and Italy. He said that the main idea of BRI is to have inclusive and sustainable development. The investment conference hosted by Pakistan during the BRI forum attracted numerous Chinese Small medium enterprises. Their principal request was to be provided with favorable conditions. He also mentioned that there were several MOUs signed related to Socio-economics like building of Smart Universities,

Ramay of ZF also announced the publication of a report titled 'Eco-civilization and CPEC' under the banner of the Zalmi Foundation. The paper discusses the concept of eco civilization and how CPEC is incorporating it. The paper analyses CPEC through the lens of green investment principles which were presented by President Xi Jinping.