Source: The Express Tribune
Publisher: The Express Tribune
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. The Express Tribune News Network. 
Publication Date: Apr 09, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Bilawal inaugurates Thar coal power project

Snippet: Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) Chairman Bilawal Bhutto Zardari on Wednesday inaugurated Pakistan's first major coal-based power project based in Sindh's Tharparkar District.

'Today, the PPP has displayed its belief in delivering for the masses. This project and its success is a milestone for all of Pakistan. The PPP and Sindh government has set an example for all other political parties of this country, who remain limited to tall claims with no actual achievements,' said Bilawal in his address to the inauguration ceremony.

Body: 
'This project is also a validation of the 18th Amendment and shows what provinces can achieve when they have rights over their own resources.'

Bilawal said the project was also a testament to the success of the public-private partnership model that the PPP has aggressively pursued over recent years.

The PPP chairman also announced several development measures for Tharparkar District, including the establishment of a campus of the NED Engineering University. 'Once the NED campus is established in Thar, we will also set up a multi-disciplinary university on the public-private partnership model.'

Bilawal also announced that the Sindh government would now pay the electricity bills of all Tharparkar residents. 'These are the measures that one expects in a welfare state and in 'Naya Pakistan'. The PPP is the only political party that has consistently delivered on its promises and we will continue to work for the uplift of Pakistan and its people,' he said.

Earlier, the PPP chairman conducted a visit of the project including the power generation plants and the coalfields providing the fuel source.

In his address earlier, Sindh Chief Minister Murad Ali Shah said the coal power project was an achievement at par with Pakistan's nuclear tests.

He said the project was a manifestation of the provincial government and PPP's will to provide a better future for Pakistan's coming generations. 'We faced a lot of criticism and received constant negative feedback at the planning stage. Those people were focusing on the difficulties that could be faced in the project's execution. We were aware of the challenges too but knew they could be overcome,' said Shah.

'We did not take a U-turn on the matter and the result has been beneficial for the whole of Pakistan.'

Test run operations were started at the 660-megawatt (MW) Engro Powergen Thar Private Ltd (EPTL) towards the end of March.

The power station's two 330-megawatt (MW) units will burn domestic lignite, a cheap but polluting energy source, from the Tharparkar district, around 390 kilometres east of Karachi.

EPTL is part of the $60 billion China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) that involves building new infrastructure to help turn Pakistan into a major overland route linking China to the wider region.

At a press conference on Tuesday, the plant's project manager, Faisal Shafiq, said the station's first unit was connected to the power grid in March and the second unit will be connected this month.

Pakistan to start producing power from Thar coal in few days

Commercial operations are expected to formally commence from June, he said. 'The project took around 10 years to complete from the time the project was conceived and the Sindh government signed a partnership with Engro under the Public Private Partnership regime.'

Shafiq said that all environmental concerns regarding the coal-based power project had been allayed and the project had been built in accordance with the standards set by the World Bank and the International Finance Corporation.

The project director said that once the project would achieve its full capacity, it would consume 12,000 tonnes per day of coal extracted from the coal mine of Thar Block-II.

An around 4,000-strong labour force had been used for the construction of the power plant, of which around 2,500 were natives of Thar. 'Around 70 engineers working for the project were also Tharis.'

Earlier, the project manager of Thar Block-II coal mine, Naeem Pasha, said that mining operations had formally commenced in 2016 and the open-pit mining operation had now reached a depth of 160 metres.

He said the current coal extraction levels could sustain the daily fuel needs of the 660 MW power plant.

Pasha said the coal mine of Thar Block-II tapped into just 1% of the massive Thar coal reserves of 175 billion tonnes, which was 'enough to generate electricity for the next 50 years'.

Pakistan discovered the Thar coalfields in 1991. These contain the world's seventh largest coal reserves of 175 billion tons - more than the combined oil reserves of energy-rich Saudi Arabia and Iran - and 68 times higher than Pakistan's total gas reserves.

The Singh Engro Coal Mining Company (SECMC) is a group of seven stakeholders including the government of Sindh with 51% majority stake, as well as Engro, the Habib Group and Hubco.

In the second phase of Thar Coal Block-II project, two other companies - Thar Energy Limited (TEL) and ThalNova - will each set up 330MW power plants by 2021. Block-II will increase coal production by 3.8 million tons in each phase. It has a total of five phases and the first one is nearing completion.