Source: Dawn
Publisher: Pakistan Herald Publications (Pvt.) Limited
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Dawn 
Publication Date: Oct 11, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Stalled CPEC projects to be revived

Snippet: 

Pakistan and China on Friday vowed to restart stalled schemes under the multi-billion dollar China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) project.

Body: 
The decision was made during the 7th meeting of the CPEC's Joint Working Group on Transport Infrastructure. The meeting took place a day after Prime Minister Imran Khan's returned to the country following a two-day official visit to China where he met with the Chinese leadership. The two countries reaffirmed their commitments to complete under progress CPEC projects.

According to the spokesman for the Ministry of Communication, the meeting discussed ongoing and future CPEC projects.

The Chinese side was led by Chief Planner HoD China Wang Zhiqing while the Pakistani delegation was led by Secretary Communications Jawwad Rafique Malik.

The Chinese side expressed satisfaction on the quality and timely completion of CPEC projects. The delegation - comprising of Chinese ministers of transport and railways as well as Exim Bank China representatives - stressed upon the need for earlier start of future schemes.

The meeting also commended the completion of Multan-Sukkur Motorway (M-5) and Thakot-Havelian project.

It was decided that both the projects will be inaugurated in a befitting manner as they have great significance from economic point of view for Pakistan.

The meeting agreed to undertake practical steps for start D.I. Khan-Zhob project. China also assured to extend all cooperation including technical consultation and exchange of information and technology to make Highway and Research Centre (HRC) more active.

The meeting agreed for earlier start of a study on CPEC traffic to extend the range of research and training in roads sector. Improvement and rehabilitation of the Karakoram Highway (KKH), development of Gwadar Port and Lahore Orange Line Projects were also discussed in detail.

The meeting also reviewed the security measures for the CPEC projects.

The meeting also discussed various aspects of upcoming schemes of Peshawar-D.I.Khan Motorway, realignment of KKH from Thakot to Raikot and Swat Expressway from Chakdara to Fatehpur.