Source: The Express Tribune
Publisher: The Express Tribune
Byline: Zulfiqar Baig 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. The Express Tribune News Network. 
Publication Date: Feb 14, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Satellite survey of Gwadar to be carried out

Snippet: The federal government with China has decided to launch a new master plan for Gwadar according to which a geological and satellite survey of port city would be carried out.

Several projects of electricity, gas, interchange and small dams were started during the tenure of the previous government for China-Pakistan Economic Corridor CPEC.

Body: 
During this Gwadar Economic Zone and Gwadar New Master Plan strategy was chalked out.

Planning, Development and Reform Minister Makhdum Khusro Bakhtyar said consensus among stakeholders had been developed on the Gwadar City Master Plan, which would be finalised at the earliest.

Gwadar master plan delay upsets Chinese

Talking to Chinese Ambassador Yao Jing, who called on him, the minister stressed the need for expediting progress on projects in Gwadar such as new international airport, hospital, vocational institutes and a power plant.

The meeting, in which matters of mutual interest, including progress on China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) projects, came under discussion, was also attended by Planning Secretary Zafar Hasan and Project Director CPEC Hasaan Daud Butt.

'The [Gwadar] projects will not only create conducive environment for future investment but also help upgrade facilities for local population,' the statement quoted the minister as telling the Chinese ambassador.'[The government is] all set to attract more trilateral investment here in future.'

Qatar expresses interest in CPEC, investment in Gwadar

The minister appreciated that Chinese experts on socioeconomic development were visiting Pakistan this month to discuss cooperation in agriculture, education, medical treatment, poverty alleviation, water supply and vocational training projects.

He hailed the Chinese government for financial support to initiate pilot projects for poverty alleviation, saying that Pakistan would identify sites for workable as well as impact-creating projects with the input of provincial governments in this sector.

'All measures will be taken to fast-track the industrial cooperation by ensuring development of special economic zones (SEZs). The ground breaking of the Rashakai SEZ would be done soon, Bakhtyar reiterated.