Source: Dawn
Publisher: Pakistan Herald Publications (Pvt.) Limited
Byline: Khalid Hasnain 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Dawn 
Publication Date: Oct 07, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,laho,pakis,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Orange Line train's testing phase from 20th

Snippet: A joint venture of the Chinese firms is likely to put the Orange Line Metro Train Project (OLMTP) into testing phase from Oct 20 as the entire work, including civil, electrical, mechanical, on the Rs200bn train project is almost complete.

The testing phase is mandatory ahead of the operation (opening for the public at large) that is scheduled to be launched in December, according to official sources privy to the project. It would continue until the launch of the train service.

Body: 
'Civil work on the project is almost complete and the respective civic agency (Lahore Development Authority) is waiting for a go-ahead by the CR-Norinco Chinese joint venture that has almost done its job. Hopefully, both the LDA and the CR-Norinco will finish their respective jobs within next 10 days,' a senior official explained while talking to Dawn on Monday.

The OLMTP is the first mega public transport project of its kind being executed under the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC). Envisaged by the Shahbaz Sharif-led PML-N government in December 2013, the tenders for the project were floated on Jan 29, 2014. After a meeting of the then president of Pakistan with the Chinese premier on Feb 19 in Beijing, China decided to fund the project through soft loan and declared it a gift to Pakistan. On June 24, China recommended CR-NORINCO Joint Venture for execution of the project. Finally, after getting a go-ahead, the LDA started civil work assigned by the CR-Norinco in October 2015.

The official said the testing phase of the OLMTP would take a couple of months before start of its service. During the testing phase, all sets of the train would run on the 27km long track, starting from Dera Gujran (near Quaid-i-Azam Interchange) up to Ali Razabad (Raiwind Road) via Lakshmi Chowk, GPO, Jain Mandar, Chauburji, Scheme Mor (Multan Road) and Thokar Niaz Baig. The test run would be carried out by the Chinese engineers and drivers.

'During this period, they would also keep building capacity of Pakistani engineers,' the official added.

According to another official source, after the PTI government in Punjab had sought retendering of the operation and maintenance contract of the train, the Punjab Mass Transit Authority reinitiated the process.

'Currently, the appraisal/evaluation of two potential Chinese bidders is under way. Soon operation and maintenance contract would be awarded to the eligible firm,' he added.

Previously, there was a plan to entrust the CR-Norinco with operation and maintenance of the project. But during evaluation made by PML-N government, the bid of a Chinese-Korean JV was found suitable.

However, the PTI's government in Punjab expressed doubts over the previous process, directing the PMTA to invite the tenders for the project afresh.

'Senior and junior officials (of CR-Norinco, PMTA and the LDA) engaged in the project have been recently directed to accomplish their respective tasks before the metro train's opening for the public,' the official maintained.