Source: Business Recorder
Publisher: Emmay Zed Publications (Private) Ltd
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 Business Recorder. All Rights Reserved. 
Publication Date: Apr 11, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,pakis,chinaz,apacz,asiaz,bric,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: CPEC to open new vistas of opportunities for entire region: PM

Snippet: Prime Minister Imran Khan on Thursday said that the government accorded top priority to China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) project as it would not only help in translating all weather Pak-China relations into mutually beneficial economic equation but would also open new vistas of opportunities for the entire region. The prime minister was meeting with representatives of 15 leading Chinese companies working on various CPEC and other projects in Pakistan.

The Chinese delegation included representatives from Power China, Three Gorges Corporation, CMEC Neelum Jhelum Power Plant Project, Cr-Norinco Orange Line Project, Huawei, Zong, Port Qasim Power Plant, China Gezhouba Corporation, China State Construction, China Harbour, Matiari-Lahore Transmission Line Project, Haier and other companies. Chinese Ambassador to Pakistan Yao Jing accompanies the delegation.

Body: 
Omar Ayub Khan, Minister for Power, Makhdoom Khusro Bakhtiar, Minister for Planning, Haroon Sharif, Chairman BOI, Nadeem Babar, Chairman Energy Task Force and other senior officials were also present.

Talking to the Chinese delegation, the prime minister said that the government would provide all possible facilitation to the Chinese companies in undertaking profitable business ventures and taking advantage of business friendly policies of the present government.

Chinese Ambassador while conveying greetings from Chinese President and Premier, said that Chinese leadership was looking forward to the visit of the prime minister to China. He thanked the prime minister on behalf of Chinese leadership and business community for his personal interest in facilitating Chinese businessmen and addressing their issues. He assured the prime minister that Chinese companies would continue to partner with the government in socio-economic development of Pakistan.-PR