Source: Enterprise
Publisher: AWZ Publications and CMC Pvt. Ltd
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. CMC Pakistan 
Publication Date: Jul 30, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Chinese investors interested in IT sector

Snippet: Adviser to Prime Minister on Commerce, Textiles, Industry and Investment Abdul RazakDawood urged Chinese investors to exploit untapped potential of IT sector by bringing investment in Pakistan.

In a meeting with Chinese officials, Dawood informed the delegation of the investment friendly policies being offered in Pakistan.

Body: 
The delegation of China Railways Construction Cooperation (CRCC) called on the adviser to explore investment opportunities in Information Technology (IT) sector of the country. Dawood further underscored the special incentives provided to investors in IT Special Economic Zones (SEZs) in Islamabad.

He appreciated the investment proposal laid forward by CRCC and ensured all-out cooperation to push the project forward. Moreover, he stressed upon the delegation to collaborate with local IT firms and companies to transfer technological know-how and create jobs for local IT human resource.

Also present on the occasion, CRCC managing director appreciated Pakistan’s business-friendly policies and informed the participants that CRCC intended to undertake ‘Islamabad IT Special Economic Zone Project’ as a public-private partnership between Pakistan Software Export Board (PSEB) and CRCC.

He stressed that CRCC was committed to investing in development of SEZs without financially burdening the government of Pakistan.

“The project aims to develop an IT SEZ in Islamabad with state-of-the-art infrastructure, superior connectivity and smart facilities, which will attract investment in the IT sector,” he added.

He was of the view that the proposed project would bring immense benefits to Pakistan by attracting top IT companies to the country. “The project will provide safe, convenient and affordable office spaces to nurture home grown IT business and generate thousands of new jobs for Pakistani IT talent while raising competitiveness of Pakistan’s IT product in global market,” the CRCC representative highlighted.