Source: Frontier Star
Publisher: Frontier Star Publisher
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 Asianet-Pakistan 
Publication Date: Apr 27, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,pakis,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: After return of PM Imran Khan from China, the new democratic process will start in country: Dr Firdous

Snippet: Special Assistant to the PM on Information and Broadcasting Dr Firdous Ashiq Awanhas said that after return of Prime Minister Imran Khan from China, the new democratic process will start in country. She said that this is the outcome of the consultation process of PTI. She said that any personal attack will be responded but there should be no personal attack in parliament, adding that we should have to move forward while ending this atmosphere and government should fulfill its responsibilities.

In an interview with a private TV channel, she said that the statement of Prime Minister Imran Khan terming Bilawal Bhutto Zardari as 'sahiba' was the 100 percent slip of tongue. She said that these kinds of words should not be used in politics, adding that the national leaders should choose the proper words. She said that the nation is facing many problems.

Body: 
Dr Firdous Ashiq Awan said that no government wants confrontation with opposition in parliament and the role of opposition is to criticize the government. She said that the deeds of government speak and opposition speaks through tongue and both have to play their own role.

Dr Firdous Ashiq Awan said that we have no problem in finding the solution of the problems while sitting in parliament, adding that the opposition is not ready to talk with the government in parliament.

She said that the prime minister during the last cabinet meeting reiterated his commitment to make the parliament functional. She said that it was decided in the last cabinet meeting that Prime Minister Imran Khan himself, ministers and MNAs will come in the parliament.

Dr Firdous Ashiq Awan said that we will table the legislation in the parliament and we will hold debate on the national issues. Dr Firdous Ashiq Awan said that the government is going to make the accountability mechanism more effective and active. She said that the consultation on the drafting of NAB law is continued; adding that if the house will have consensus then the government will have no objection to support these amendments.

Dr Firdous Ashiq Awan said that the pharmaceutical companies will decrease the prices of medicines prior to Eid-ul-Fitr.