Source: Pakistan Observer
Publisher: Pakistan Observer
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Observer 
Publication Date: Mar 22, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Pakistan's achievements under CPEC

Snippet: THE World Bank has recently stated in a report that with the current pace, CPEC will create more than one million jobs in Pakistan by 2030. No doubt, this is an economic leap the country has not seen since its inception. CPEC project is providing skills to the local labors. CPEC is an attractive project for bringing foreign investor's interest to invest in Pakistan. Recently, Saudi Arabia signed an investment agreement of more than $20 billion. With the second phase of CPEC about to proceed, the country will take a huge economic leap moving forward.

Body: 
During its initial stages, there were much ambiguities regarding the practicality and feasibility of an economic enterprise worth 46 Billion US Dollars. But gradually, with the passage of time, the potential of CPEC and Pakistan has been exposed to the world and the investment quantum was rapidly raised to 62 Billion US Dollars. Soon after, when the Chinese President; Xi Jinping made an official visit to Pakistan in April 2015, he wrote these words in an official editorial on CPEC, 'This will be my first trip to Pakistan, but I feel as if I am going to visit the home of my own brother.' There is no doubt, Mr. Jinping proved that he meant every word he wrote. From onwards to his speech, Pakistan became a second home to Chinese counterparts. Even though, CPEC was initiated as an economic venture, in a whole sum, it now encompasses social, cultural, technical and ethical ties between China and Pakistan. As of 2019, there are concrete milestones that have been achieved.

OBOR is a project and CPEC, in its regional context, is a part of that project. OBOR consists of two routes, one maritime and the other land based trade pathway. CPEC is the first and the most essential part of the land part of OBOR. It is by far the largest investment that has ever made it into Pakistan since 1947. Even better is the fact that this investment is not arriving in the form of loan or financial aid, rather, it is making its way into the Pakistan economy through industrial development, energy sufficiency, road and rail network, cultural exchange, technology transfer and capital. The term CPEC denotes a physical Corridor meant to boost trade through the traditional silk route but in its regional context, it binds the futures of China and Pakistan as one entity.

CPEC circles all the major impediments to Pakistan's economy. One of the first hurdles was the energy shortage. In early 2017, Pakistan had a 4500MW power deficit. Reportedly, with the exemplary dedication and cooperation, as of 2019, out of 8600 total electricity feeders across the country, power cuts have been ended in over 5200 feeders. It is important to note that Pakistan was losing 2.5% of its overall GDP in terms of industrial growth due to power shortage which is being added to the national growth percentile. The textile industry saw a sharp decline in production and profits due to rising power tariffs and unannounced cuts, with the availability of over 10000 MW of additional power, it is expected that the revival of textile industry will add a major chunk of progress to the national economy.

With the advent of CPEC, there has been a consensus in the national politics and among the defense forces that first and foremost, CPEC can only be implemented through concrete security measures. After a handful of unfortunate events in which Chinese engineers were targeted by militants, the Pakistan Army devised a comprehensive strategy in collaboration with provinces and Federal Ministry of Interior to plan and implement a security framework for CPEC. Prior to this, the Pakistan Army had already made impressive progress in the ongoing operation; Rad-ul-Fasad, which brought confidence of Chinese authorities to go ahead with plans in Pakistan on CPEC. In the future context, it is evident that infrastructure development and job creation on such a massive scale as this, in sectors like railways, industry, construction, technical skills, power and production will discourage militancy and exploitation of the masses by extremist elements. In the larger picture, it is believed that CPEC will completely wipe out extremism in the long run. The fruits and forecasts of this scheme have already been observed in 2018, which saw a drop in terrorist activities by more than 60%. If Pakistan and its people continue with the same zest and zeal, it is only a matter of time when hardliners and terrorists will not be able to find any fertile ground for their infestation.