Source: BBC Monitoring South Asia
Publisher: The British Broadcasting Corporation
Byline: 
Copyright: (c) 2019 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation. 
Publication Date: Dec 04, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,afgh,asiaz,casiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Highlights from Pakistan's Pashto-language TV, press, websites 4 Dec 19

Snippet: THE FOLLOWING IS A BBCM SELECTION OF MAJOR NEWS ITEMS PUBLISHED IN PAKISTAN'S PASHTO-LANGUAGE TV, PRESS AND ONLINE MEDIA OUTLETS ON 4 December 2019.

Wahdat

Body: 
China invests 12.4bn dollars in Pakistan's CPEC projects

China Pakistan Economic Corridor [CPEC - infrastructure projects in Pakistan] authority official has said under CPEC, China invested 12.4bn dollars in 12 different projects. The official said most of these projects are underway in various areas of the country and work on the rest of the projects was planned to be initiated soon. (front page, 140 words approx.)

Digital economy vital for country: Planning Minister

Minister of Planning, Development and Reform, Asad Umar, said the digital economy is very important for the country and it should not be restricted to a certain class. He added the government is working to make information technology ministry independent, which would help in monitoring financial matters in the country. (back page, 160 words approx.)

Swiss ambassador meets KP tourism minister

The Tourism minister of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP) province Atif Khan met the ambassador of Switzerland and discussed investment opportunities in KP. Atif Khan said the KP government has been working hard to promote tourism industry in the province. (back page, 120 words approx.)

[Wahdat gives good and equal coverage to both sides of the Durand Line (Pakistan-Afghan frontier), with a focus on Pashtun issues. The paper also publishes interviews with Afghan political leaders. It provides a balanced mix of anti-Taliban and pro-Taliban opinion.]

Khabroona

Over 6000 Afghan refugees repatriated in 2019

6,222 registered Afghan refugees in Pakistan have been repatriated to Afghanistan in 2019. The UNHCR [United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees] Pakistan spokesperson Qaisar Khan said every Afghan refugee who was repatriated has been paid 200 dollars. He added due to the cold weather in Afghanistan, the repatriation process has been suspended for three months from December 2019 to February 2020. (front page, 200 words approx.)

JUI-F organise protest march in Bannu district

The Jamiat Ulema-i-Islam(Fazl) (JUI-F), under Plan C, arranged a protest march against the [federal] government. The workers of opposition political parties joined the protest march. The protestors said the situation of the country under the current government has become deplorable. The protestors demanded re-election in the country. (front page, 180 words approx.)

Former PM Sharif's medical treatment

According to the family doctor of the former prime minister of Pakistan Nawaz Sharif, doctors would implant stent(s) or would carry out brain blood vessels operation on Sharif. He said Sharif's platelet levels were unstable and a vascular surgeon would carry out Sharif's medical check-up for further treatment. (front page, 180 words approx.)

[Khabroona is owned by the Peshawar-based Subh Group, which also publishes the Urdu daily Subh. It provides good coverage to both sides of the Durand Line (the Pakistan-Afghan frontier), with a focus on Pashtun issues. It provides a balanced mix of anti-Taliban and pro-Taliban opinion.]

Hewad

KP Government to fast-track Swat motorway project

Khyber Pakhtunkhwa's Chief Minister Mahmood Khan has said the second constructional phase (or Phase-II) of Swat motorway project would be completed in two years; nine interchanges and eight bridges are under consideration for the route. The second phase of the motorway project consists of 77 kilometres from Chakdara [in lower Dir district] to Fatehpur [nearby Swat], said the chief minister. (front page, 250 words approx.)

NAB issues orders to freeze PML-N President properties

The National Accountability Bureau (NAB - Pakistan's top anti-corruption body) has ordered to freeze the properties of the President of Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) Shahbaz Sharif. The properties include Sharif's two houses in model town, lands in Chiniot and other properties. The NAB also approved investigation against the PML-N leader Rana Sana Ullah for assets-beyond-known means. (front page, 200 words approx.)

Disabled to be facilitated: President Alvi

President Arif Alvi has said the disabled would be given equal opportunity in every field. He stated the International Day of Persons with Disabilities (IDPD) is celebrated to spread awareness regarding rights of disabled. He said the assistive technology [technology which helps disabled people] would be promoted in the country, which would ultimately help disabled. (front page, 180 words approx.)

[Hewad is Pakistan's oldest Pashto newspaper, and gives equal coverage to both sides of the Durand Line (the Pakistan-Afghanistan frontier), with a focus on Pashtuns and religion.]

Tribal News Network

Former President submits bail plea in High court

The former co-chairman of the Pakistan People's Party (PPP) Asif Ali Zardari and his sister Faryal Talpur submitted bail plea in the Islamabad High Court. The plea was submitted on medical grounds stating that Asif Ali Zardari is a law-abiding citizen; the government was engaged in the political victimisation and have levelled fake cases against him. Further in the plea it was said that Asif Zardari is a heart patient and has been suffering from sugar disease. (front page, 250 words approx.)

Public library reopened in Bajwar district

A public library in the Bajwar district was reopened after eleven years. While addressing the event, Deputy Commissioner of Peshawar Usman Mehsud said the administration would also contribute books to the library. Senior Journalist, Zahid Jan, updated the participants of the event regarding the library. (front page, 200 words approx.)

[Tribal News Network (TNN) is a Peshawar-based online multimedia news agency. It provides news from Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and the erstwhile tribal areas and focusses on their issues and problems. It was established in 2014 to serve radio audiences through partner FM radio stations and has now evolved into a news portal.]

Pashtun Gazette

Uncertainty over Afghanistan's presidential election result

The political instability in Afghanistan has not come to an end and despite 66 days of the presidential election, the Independent Election Commission of Afghanistan has failed to announce the result. The presidential candidates' council has demanded a national government in Afghanistan amid concerns. The council blamed that due to the government intervention, the election results has been delayed. (front page, 300 words approx.)

[Pashtun Gazette is a bilingual news portal in Pashto and Urdu. Reportage in the two languages differs due to the different target audiences. The Pashto section of the website is mostly about Pakistan's erstwhile tribal areas, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Afghanistan, while the Urdu section is about mainstream Pakistani issues.]

Date Line (Prime Time Talk Show on AVT Khyber News at 17:00 gmt)

Debate on loopholes in Election Commission

Anchor Hassan Khan said few months back two members of the Election Commission of Pakistan (ECP) retired from their posts and similarly the post of Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) is also about to expire in few days. He added the election commission is a constitutional institution and it has a proper mechanism for recruitment; however, till date the members have not been selected.

The Awami National Party (ANP) leader Saleem Khan said the election commission has a very vital for democracy in the country. He stated Prime Minister Imran Khan claims that his rule would be fair and transparent; however, the prime minister appointed two members of the election commission in violation of constitution, on which Chief Election Commissioner refused to take oath from them. He said the ruling class used constitution for their own self-interest.

Former Secretary of the election commission Afzal Khan said not a single government worked to make the election commission an independent and powerful institution. He said PM Khan earlier claimed that he would make the election commission an independent institution. Afzal Khan said under the current government two posts were vacant in the election commission but government was not doing anything in this regard.

The Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) leader Sajaad Toro said the government and opposition parties should select people who can take the election commission forward. He said that a considerable time has been spent on the selection of the election commission members and now we have positive signs that the issue would be solved tomorrow [4 December]. He said the government wanted to have fair and honest members in the election commission.

[AVT Khyber News is Pakistan's first Pashto-language satellite news channel and was launched in 2007. The Islamabad-based channel is owned by the AVT group, which first launched AVT Khyber (an entertainment channel) in 2004. AVT says it is "the voice of Pashtuns around the world". It has a network of reporters in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province and in Afghanistan.]

Mashriq Leads (Prime Time Talk Show on Mashriq TV at 14:00 gmt)

Discussion on welfare of disabled in KP province

Anchor Salman Ali Shah said the International Day of Persons with Disabilities (IDPD) has been celebrated all over the country. He said despite the claims, the job quota for person with disabilities has not increased.

Talking live on the show, Mushtaq Hussain, said there is lack of basic facilities for disabled in the province and most of the buildings were inaccessible for them. He said the 2017 report of WHO showed that there were 17 per cent of disabled in Pakistan.

Disabled person Shahab U Din said the authorities were claiming of many steps for disabled, however, he said that there no work has been done on the ground and there was no law for disabled in the country.

Secretary Social Welfare Department of KP province, Muhammad Idrees, said that a new disability act was in pipeline and the government wanted to formulate a comprehensive law for disabled people. He said that in new law the job quotas' will be redefine. He added that 150m rupees (around one million dollars) were approved for the special educational complex and it will be improved in coming times.

[Mashriq TV is a Pashto-language channel launched in August 2016 and is a partner station of the BBC. It is owned by the Mashriq group of newspapers which also publishes English-language daily The Statement. The channel is observed to carry balanced reporting with no overt leanings towards any political party or group.]

Source: BBC Monitoring in Pashto 1030 gmt 4 Dec 19