Source: The Express Tribune
Publisher: The Express Tribune
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. The Express Tribune News Network. 
Publication Date: Oct 18, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Over 1,500 cops to guard Chehlum processions in capital

Snippet: Police have chalked out a comprehensive security plan for the Chehlum of Hazrat Imam Hussain which will be observed on Sunday.

According to the security plan finalised by DIG Operations Waqaruddin Syed,

Body: 
More than 1,500 policemen will provide security to the mourning procession that will emerge from various Imambargahs of the federal capital.

Besides police, personnel from the paramilitary Rangers, counter-terrorism force, police commandoes, Falcon Squad, Eagle Squad and personnel from other law enforcement agencies will be deployed to perform patrolling and security duties. Moreover, personnel from the special branch of police, crime investigation department (CID) and the traffic police will also be on duty, the operations chief said.

Plainclothesmen will spread out in the processions for keeping eye on mischief mongers.

The central chehlum procession would emerge from Imam Bargah Asna Ashra in sector G-6/2 and culminate at the same spot after passing through designated route.

Foolproof security planned for Chehlum

The entire route has been split into three sectors and an SP would oversee each sector. These sectors have further been divided into sub-sectors which would have either SP or DSP as in-charge.

Throughout the route, the police personnel would be deployed for street plugging, rooftop and picket duties which each category having a separate in-charge.

Sharpshooters of Counter Terrorism Force (CTF) would take positions on strategic locations atop buildings along the route to neutralize any target identified by senior officers.

There will be only one entry point of the procession where people will enter via walkthrough gates. Volunteers from procession organisers will also perform duty with police personnel at walkthrough gates and along the procession route.

The routes of all processions will be completely cordoned off through a heavy deployment of security forces. No one will be allowed to enter the procession, except from the starting point after checking.

Reserve police have been appointed to respond in a rapid manner in case of mishap while all the buildings, hotels, motels, plazas and houses on the route will be meticulously combed before start of procession.

DIG Operations has urged the zonal SPs to perform duties earnestly and patriotically. He further instructed to deal citizens politely and respectfully.

Traffic arrangements

Islamabad Traffic Police (ITP) has issued the traffic plan to ensure a smooth flow of traffic in the city on the eve of Chehlum.

According to the plan, the traffic will be diverted on to alternate routes starting as early as 8am on the day of the Chehlum until culmination of the main procession.

Parking banned along procession routes in Pindi

During the related timings, Fazle Haq Road from Kalsoom Plaza and China Chowk will remain close for traffic and citizens can use the Jinnah Avenue.

Likewise, 7th Avenue heading to Chandtara Chowk will remain close from Blue Area out loop to Soharwardi Chowk. The citizens can use alternate route from Nazim Uddin road to Khayaban and Faisal Avenue.

Meanwhile, 7th Avenue from Sohrwardi Chowk to Sector G-7/4 out loop, Service Road, Iqbal Hall, Post Office Service Road will remain close and Jinnah Avneue may be used from Fazle Haq Road.

Moreover, Saddar Road from Iqbal Hall to Melody Chowk will remain completely closed for traffic and motorists can use Aabpra, Sohrwardi Roadd and Shaheed Millat Road alternatively.

The traffic from Luqman Hakeem Road from Polyclinic to Iqbal Hall will be diverted to Jinnah Avenue.

The motorists heading toward Rawalpindi would use Margallah Road, Faisal Avenue (left road) while those going to Rawalpindi may use Shaheed Millat Road, China Chowk Underpass while those going to Murree Road would use Dhokri Chowk from Atta Turk Avenue.