Source: The Balochistan Times
Publisher: Asianet-Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 The Balochistan Times 
Publication Date: Mar 26, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Contract for Mohmand dam awarded

Snippet: Following the World Water Day celebrated last week, Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) took a giant leap forward for development of precious water resources in the country by awarding the delayed-for-decade contract worth Rs.183.523 billion for civil and electro-mechanical works of Mohmand Dam

Project on Tuesday.

Body: 
The contract was awarded to a Joint Venture (JV) comprising the China Gezhouba Group of Companies (CGGC) of China as the lead firm and DESCON of Pakistan as its partner, said a statement issued.

The final contract worth Rs.183.523 billion was awarded to to JV thus, saving Rs. 18 billion from the approved PC-I, it further said.

The contract agreement signing ceremony was held at WAPDA House, wherein the representatives of WAPDA and CGGC-DESCON JV signed the contract agreement on behalf of their organizations.

Chairman WAPDA Lt Gen Muzammil Hussain (Retd), Member WAPDA, senior officers, project authorities and high-ups of CGGC and DESCON were also present on the occasion.

It is worth mentioning here that WAPDA has been able to successfully realign Mohmand Dam Hydropower Project after a delay of decades, removing the legal, financial and technical snags.

Addressing the contract signing ceremony, WAPDA Chairman said

Mohmand Dam Hydropower Project will phenomenally contribute towards water, food and energy security of Pakistan.

He said WAPDA was committed to completing the project as early as possible to cope with the ever increasing needs of water and electricity in the country.

He expressed the hope that Mohmand Dam would go a long way in stabilizing the national economy besides alleviating poverty and ushering in an era of development in the project area.

Mohmand Dam Hydropower Project is historic and unique in nature being constructed on River Swat in Tribal District Mohmand of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province.

The project is scheduled to be completed in five years and eight months. On completion, the project will store about 1.2 million acre feet (MAF) of water, generate 800 megawatt (MW) of low-cost hydel electricity and help mitigating floods in Peshawar, Charsadda and Naushera.

Besides supplementing 160,000 acres of existing land, about 16,700 acres of new land will also be irrigated because of Mohmand Dam. In addition, 300 million gallon water per day will also be provided to Peshawar for drinking purpose. Annual benefits of the project have been estimated at Rs. 51.6 billion.