Source: BBC Monitoring South Asia
Publisher: The British Broadcasting Corporation
Byline: 
Copyright: (c) 2019 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation. 
Publication Date: Dec 19, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Highlights from Pakistan's Pashto-language TV, press, websites 19 Dec 19

Snippet: THE FOLLOWING IS A BBCM SELECTION OF MAJOR NEWS ITEMS PUBLISHED IN PAKISTAN'S PASHTO-LANGUAGE TV, PRESS AND ONLINE MEDIA OUTLETS ON 19 DECEMBER 2019.

Wahdat

Body: 
Petroleum ministry denies reports on rise in gas prices

Ministry of Petroleum has denied the news reports related to 214 per cent rise in price of gas for household consumers. The statement adds that the ministry has not approved increase in price of gas; however, the hike is under consideration. Government increases price of the gas under the recommendation of Oil and Gas Regulatory Authority, who asses the overall revenue requirement. (back page, 160 words approx.)

CPEC is future of our generations: Speaker National Assembly

Speaker of the lower house of the parliament National Assembly, Asad Qaisar, has said that China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC - infrastructure project under China's Belt Road Initiative programme) project is the future of our next generations. The government would make every effort to complete the project in due time and extend the project to central Asian countries. He stated that the project was gift of China to Pakistan, which would promote our economy. (back page, 200 words approx.)

Ex-President should be made accountable: Amnesty

Amnesty International, an international civil society group, has said that Pakistan should make accountable the former army dictator Pervez Musharraf for all his crimes. Pakistan's special court had sentenced Musharraf to death in a high treason case for suspending constitution in 2007. Amnesty International issued a statement on verdict of the special court, which said that Musharraf should not be made accountable for just few crimes, rather he should be made to answer for every crime he committed. (front page, 200 words approx.)

[Wahdat gives good and equal coverage to both sides of the Durand Line (Pakistan-Afghan frontier), with a focus on Pashtun issues. The paper also publishes interviews with Afghan political leaders. It provides a balanced mix of anti-Taliban and pro-Taliban opinion.]

Khabroona

Army chief vows to not allow instability of Pakistan

Chief of Army Staff (COAS) General Qamar Javed Bajwa has said that they would not allow Pakistan stability to be compromised. According to the Inter Service Public Relations (ISPR - Pakistan's military media wing), the army chief visited Special Service Group (SSG) [special operations group] headquarter and in talks with the army commandos, he said that they had pride on SSG commandos, whose service for the nation was commendable. (front page, 160 words approx.)

Two police personnel killed during anti-polio campaign

Two Police personnel were killed in Dir district of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP) province during an anti-polio campaign. Police sources said that both police personnel were deputed on anti-polio campaign. They were killed by unknown assailant, while they were on their way for duty. The anti-polio campaign began from 16 December, which would end on 20 December. (front page, 200 words approx.)

KP Government to introduce community policing: IGP

Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Inspector General Police (IGP) Muhammad Naeem Khan has directed to introduce community policing and dispute resolution committees in tribal districts. The IGP directed police officials to strengthen their ties with local communities and resolve their disputes amicably. (front page, 130 words approx.)

[Khabroona is owned by the Peshawar-based Subh Group, which also publishes the Urdu daily Subh. It provides good coverage to both sides of the Durand Line (the Pakistan-Afghan frontier), with a focus on Pashtun issues. It provides a balanced mix of anti-Taliban and pro-Taliban opinion.]

Hewad

Politics, people not free in Pakistan: PPP chairman

The Pakistan People's Party (PPP) chairman Bilawal Bhutto Zardari has said that politics and people are not free in Pakistan. He stated that it was the time that people should decide whether they wanted a true democracy or puppet. He said that what sort of freedom was this, where a person did not have freedom to even tweet about something. (front page, 200 words approx.)

Pakistan rejects Indian government allegations

Pakistan has rejected Indian government accusation of reducing minorities' population and violence against them. Foreign Office spokesperson Muhammad Faisal said the independence of Pakistan and India and 1971 split of East- [now called Bangladesh] and West-Pakistan affected the ratio of minorities' population in Pakistan, in fact in last decades the ratio of minorities' population has increased in Pakistan. (back page, 160 words approx.)

Anti-graft body opposes removing Maryam's name from no-fly-list

The National Accountability court has opposed the removal of Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) vice president Maryam Nawaz's name from the Exit Control List ( ECL - person on the list is prohibited from leaving Pakistan). The matter was brought under discussion in cabinet subcommittee, which would put forward their recommendations to cabinet on the matter. (back page, 140 words approx.)

[Hewad is Pakistan's oldest Pashto newspaper, and gives equal coverage to both sides of the Durand Line (the Pakistan-Afghanistan frontier), with a focus on Pashtuns and religion.]

Tribal News Network

Miran Shah market owners protest against compensation

Owners of Miran Shah market in North Waziristan of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP) protested in favor of their demands. The protestors said that compensation of 300,000 rupees (1934 dollars) for their demolished shops was not acceptable to them. The protestors said that if their demands were not met, they would move to court for their due compensation. (front page, 120 words approx.)

PM calls core committee meeting after special court verdict

Prime Minister (PM) Imran Khan has called the meeting of the party core committee, after the announcement of death sentence to the former president Pervez Musharraf. The core committee meeting would be attended by senior leadership of the party. Sources said that core committee would also discuss the extension of the army chief's service and the special court's verdict on Pervez Musharraf. (front page, 160 words approx.)

Illegal Rickshaw in Peshawar threat to security

After explosion in front of the Peshawar High Court (PHC), illegal Rickshaws have been termed serious threat to security. According to the sources, seven terrorism incidents reported in last one year including illegal rickshaws. There are more than seven thousand illegal rickshaws in Peshawar. The intelligence department suggested crackdown against the illegal rickshaws.

[Tribal News Network (TNN) is a Peshawar-based online multimedia news agency. It provides news from Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and the erstwhile tribal areas and focusses on their issues and problems. It was established in 2014 to serve radio audiences through partner FM radio stations and has now evolved into a news portal.]

Date Line (Prime Time Talk Show on AVT Khyber News at 17:00 GMT)

Discussion on political turmoil and economy

Anchor Hassan Khan said that the political situation of the country was in turmoil and institutions were posturing to each other. He stated that the price of edible items has been increased and the country was facing joblessness and poverty.

Politician, businessman Shahjee Gul said that to cater the needs of our population we should focus on our economy. He said though we claimed of being a nuclear power but we cannot take our decisions. He said our prime minister was unable to participate in summit in Malaysia [Kuala Lumpur 2019 summit] because he was told not to attend.

Economic expert Arbab Usman said that our economy was going downward; the main indicators deteriorated in the country, as we have not done any efforts for it. He added that without stable economy, the country would remain in trouble.

Industrialist Zahid Shinwari said with the new government, the condition of economy has become even worse; the government has no policy to work on. He said that government did not listen to anyone for suggestion.

The Pakistan People's Party (PPP) leader Farhat Ullah Babar said that Musharraf case verdict was one of the important decisions in the history of Pakistani Judiciary. He stated that it was not important that he would be hanged, but it was the first time that an army chief had been awarded with death sentence. He said this became part of the history that an army dictator was sentence to death for violating constitution. He said that violator of the constitution is a traitor despite having fought wars.

Senior military officer Naeem Lodi said that court gave a decision and the army provided a reaction on it; however, this should not be further highlighted.

[AVT Khyber News is Pakistan's first Pashto-language satellite news channel and was launched in 2007. The Islamabad-based channel is owned by the AVT group, which first launched AVT Khyber (an entertainment channel) in 2004. AVT says it is "the voice of Pashtuns around the world". It has a network of reporters in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province and in Afghanistan.]

Mashriq Leads (Prime Time Talk Show on Mashriq TV at 14:00 GMT)

Flour prices increases in KP province

Anchor Salman Ali Shah said that the price of 40-kilogrammes of flour has been raised by 200 rupees (1.2 dollars). Flour Mills Association Muhammad Iqbal said that there was no increase in price of flour from flour mills; however, there could be some up-and-downs in market. He said there was no shortage in stock of wheat with the province.

Pakistan government increases gas prices

Anchor Shah said Oil and Gas Regulatory Authority (government agency responsible for regulating oil & gas sector in Pakistan) has announced 214 per cent increase in price of household consumers; the public was on protest for the rise in prices.

Locals in Peshawar said that on one hand there was shortage of gas and with load shedding they were unable to get proper gas, on top of that, the government increased price of it. Locals added that the prices of other edible items have also increased.

Journalist Syed Shabir Shah said that the decision would be implemented from January 2020 onwards. He said that from 8pm onwards, the gas supply is suspended from homes due to which people face difficulty in cooking food.

Two police personnel killed by unknown assailants

Anchor Shah said that two police personnel were killed during an anti-polio campaign in Dir district of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.

Local journalist Abdullah Madani said police personnel were going to receive team for polio vaccination but they were gun downed while they were on their way to the vaccination drive. He said that the campaign was started after security clearance in the area.

[Mashriq TV is a Pashto-language channel launched in August 2016 and is a partner station of the BBC. It is owned by the Mashriq group of newspapers which also publishes English-language daily The Statement. The channel is observed to carry balanced reporting with no overt leanings towards any political party or group.]

Source: in Pashto 19 Dec 19