Source: The Frontier Post
Publisher: The Frontier Post
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. The Frontier Post 
Publication Date: Dec 06, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Securing national interest

Snippet: Planning Minister Asad Umar told Senate Standing Committee on Communication that efforts are being made to obtain $9 billion Chinese financing for Railway Main Line ML-1 project at concessionary rate of interest of around two percent. It merits mention that earlier loans which were acquired by the previous government bore interest rate of 5 percent plus. It provided a pretext to the United State and multilateral donor agencies to raise the bogey of unsustainability of Chinese loans that are being provided to Pakistan. The recent critique came from the Assistant Secretary of State for South Asia and Central Affairs Ms Alice Wells, which invited prompt reaction from the Chinese Ambassador in Islamabad Yao Jing.

Body: 
It has been decided that 1872 kilometer long ML-1 project will be implemented in two phases. The PC-1 for the first phase has been approved. Railway communication network has both economic and strategic importance. Pakistan inherited it from British era which had gone rag-tag about four decades ago but only lip service was done for railway up-gradation. China's Built and Road initiative, of which CEPEC is a flagship project, created source of financing of modernization of Pakistan Railway. Neighboring country India and other countries of the region had completed railway moderation much earlier. But in Pakistan it was not even given second place to development of road infrastructure. The business community has always complained about the shortage of goods train. The railway track of main line remained medium gauge, signaling system became obsolete and 200 bridges on railway track from Karachi to Peshawar are no longer reliable because these bridges have completed their life and have become dangerous for the passing passenger and goods trains.

The cost and transparency issues of ML1 has been a subject of debate because of keeping its broad details under wrap by the previous government as PC-1 was not finalized on time for approval by CDWP and ECNEC. The multilateral donor agencies including the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and Asian Development Bank (ADB) objected to the huge cost of ML-1 and expressed reservations as to whether cash strapped Pakistan could afford. These concerns of donor agencies were genuine to greater extent as Pakistan had made formal request for $6 billion IMF bailout package and after the release of its first tranche of $1 billion ADB was approached to provide economic assistance of $1.3 billion for budget support and emergency loan for foreign debt repayment. Let us hope that present government will succeed in its efforts in getting soft Chinese loans for ML-1 project to execute it at affordable cost.