Source: Daily Balochistan Express
Publisher: Asianet-Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Daily Balochistan Express, Quetta 
Publication Date: May 28, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Unit 2 of China Power Hub company synchronized with national grid

Snippet: The 660MW Unit 2 of the China Power Hub Generation Company (Pvt.) Ltd. 2 x 660 MW coal-fired power plant was successfully synchronized with the national grid of Pakistan on May 28, 2019 as per schedule.

The synchronization, an important milestone towards the commercial operations of the Power Plant, comes exactly 5 months to the day when Unit 1 of the Project was synchronized, on December 28, 2018.

Body: 
Both the Units of CPHGC are now providing electricity to the Pakistan national grid on pre-commissioning trial basis. Synchronization of Unit 2 was achieved within the agreed technical parameters laying the foundation for future commercial operations of the Project which is planned to start in August 2019.

Speaking at the occasion, Mr. Zhao Yonggang, CEO, China Power Hub Generation Company (Pvt.) Ltd. congratulated the CPHGC team, emphasizing the achievement of synchronization of Unit 2 and other 'one-time' milestones was the result of the hard work of Pakistani and Chinese employees who are working in harmony to bring success to the Project.

'China Power Hub Generation Company (Pvt.) Ltd. is a priority project under the China Pakistan Economic Corridor and is also the first overseas thermal power project developed by SPIC under the Belt and Road Initiative,' said Mr. Yonggang.

Located in Hub, Balochistan, the CPHGC Project is a Joint Venture Company between CPIH (the Chinese state-owned company) that owns 74% and HUBCO that owns 26%. The Project despite the much higher cost, has adopted supercritical technology for environment protection. This technology requires reduced coal consumption and has lower carbon emissions thus improving its energy-conserving and environment protecting features.

The USD 2 billion Project includes a power plant and a dedicated coal Jetty. During commercial operations, the project will provide 9 billion kWh electricity to the national grid every year which will meet the electricity needs of 4 million households in Pakistan.

The CPHGC 2 x 660MW Coal-Fired Power Project officially had its ground breaking on March 21, 2017 and it is on track to be commercially operational in August 2019 that will help to alleviate a substantial part of electricity shortage in Pakistan and promote local social and economic development.