Source: The News International
Publisher: The News International, Pakistan
Byline: Mohammad Saleh Zaafir 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019 The News International 
Publication Date: Mar 23, 2019

Region Codes: ,turk,pakis,asiaz,balkz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,eurz,indsubz,meastz,medz,sasiaz,wasiaz,

Title: Cabinet to take up host of national issues on 26th

Snippet: The federal cabinet in its meeting on Tuesday (March 26) will take up country's economic and political situation besides obtaining law and order since anti-Pakistan forces are hectically engaged in hatching conspiracies to disturb the public order.

A report in this regard would be submitted in the federal cabinet's huddle to be chaired by Prime Minister Imran Khan. Well placed sources told The News here Saturday that the meeting has been summoned and it will discuss a 20-point agenda catering significant issues of national interest.

Body: 
The sources said that Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi will brief the cabinet colleagues about his visits to China and Turkey as he had important discussions with the Chinese leadership while he attended the emergency meeting of Council of Foreign Ministers (CFM) of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) in Istanbul.

The cabinet will also discuss the impact of the official three day visit of Malaysian Prime Minister Dr Mahathir Mohammad concluded on Saturday. He was the guest of honour in the Pakistan Day's magnificent parade held in Islamabad. New vistas of economic and trade cooperation between the two brotherly countries have opened due to the visit of the Malaysian leader.

Finance Minister Asad Umar will apprise the federal cabinet about agreements signed with Malaysian officials during Prime Minister Mahathir's trip.

The follow up action in the wake of the visit will also be discussed, the sources said. The cabinet will also review a proposal for extension in the agreement of Lahore-New Delhi Bus Services. It will likely discuss and approve summaries with regard to the constitution of Board of Investment and Infrastructure Board Development Board afresh. The cabinet will also approve a new aviation policy and appointments in different institution.

Earlier, on March 19, the Prime Minister chaired a five-hour long meeting of the federal cabinet which took several key decisions including the approval of a Rs278 billion for National Agriculture Emergency Programme.