Source: Pakistan Today
Publisher: Nawa Media (Pvt.) Limited
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Nawa Media (PVT.) Limited. 
Publication Date: Aug 06, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,kash,india,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: India's Kashmir decision ominous, says China

Snippet: Chinese Ambassador to Pakistan Yao Jing said that the unilateral decision of the Indian government that changes the status of Kashmir will have a very negative repercussion on peace and stability in the region.

'Indian government went to take a unilateral decision, changing the status of Kashmir and this will definitely have negative repercussion. We are closely watching the situation. Both Pakistan and China are working together to maintain peace and stability in the region.'

Body: 
This ambassador made this short-statement at the outset of his speech, he delivered at a ceremony held here at the Chinese embassy, awarding government's scholarships to the Pakistani students.

The ceremony was attended by newly appointed Chinese Deputy Head of Mission/Minister Counsellor Pang Chunxue and Director Higher Education Commission (HEC) Mohammad Raza Chohan, besides the recipients of scholars, males and females from various educational institutions of the country. There are a big number of Pakistani students who will be availing the Chinese government's scholarships (2019) for different duration, in a variety of disciplines.

Ambassador Yao Jing congratulated the students and hoped that they will act as an ambassador of Pakistan during their stay in China to further strengthen their decades' old deep-rooted partnership.

The Sino-Pak relationship is going through from generation to generation, and to this effect, the role of the youth had always been highly significant.

The scholarships' holders, he said will have a good opportunity to understand the Chinese culture and traditions. The education they will receive from China, he hoped will contribute to their future career, and enable them to play a productive role in their country's socio-economic development, on their return back home.

He assured that the Chinese embassy will always be supporting the Pakistani youth in their educational pursuits.

The students' selection was made on recommendations of the HEC. Pakistan has emerged as the world's top recipient of Chinese scholarships, as currently thousands of Pakistanis, currently studying in China in their relevant disciplines in different Chinese universities.

Latest statistics showed that the highest number of foreign students studying in China on scholarships are from Pakistan.

The HEC executive director thanked the government of China for providing opportunities of higher education to Pakistani students in such a big number. In this connection, he especially appreciated the contribution of the Chinese Embassy. He also spoke highly of the quality education, being imparted to foreign students in China.

The ceremony was also addressed by a representative of the students Mashal Hussain and an educationist Dr Nadeem Akram who shared his experience of educating himself from the brotherly country.