Source: Pakistan Press International Information Services
Publisher: Pakistan Press International Information Services
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Press International Information Services 
Publication Date: Jun 10, 2019

Region Codes: ,islama,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: (Federal Budget 2019-20): (Federal govt presents Budget 2019-20 in NA)

Snippet: Minister of State for Finance Hammad Azhar presented the budgetary proposals in the National Assembly on Tuesday.

The resource availability during the next fiscal year has been estimated at 7899.1 billion rupees against 4917.2 billion rupees in the budget estimates of the outgoing fiscal year.

Body: 
The gross revenue receipts are estimated at 6717 billion rupees, showing an increase of 18.7 percent over the budget estimates of outgoing fiscal year. After the share of provinces in gross revenue is transferred, the net review of federal government has been estimated to be about 3463 billion rupees for the next fiscal year.

The provincial share in federal taxes is estimated at 3254.5 billion rupees during the next fiscal year, which is 25.7 percent higher than the budget estimates for the outgoing year.

The tax revenue for the next fiscal year is estimated at 5822,160 million rupees, which reflects an increase of 33 percent over revised estimates of the current fiscal year. Out of this, the FBR collection target is 5550 billion rupees, which will be 12 percent of the GDP.

The Minister of State announced ten percent ad hoc relief for the government employees from one to sixteen scales and all personnel of the armed forces. Five percent increase has been announced for public sector employees of 17 to 20 grades, while no increase has been made in the salaries of the government employees of 21 and 22 grades.

He also announced increase of ten percent for all the pensioners. Minimum wage has also been increased to 17500 rupees.

The conveyance of disabled persons has been increased to 2000 rupees from 1000 rupees while special allowance of private secretaries attached with ministers and parliamentary secretaries has been enhanced to 25 percent.

The Minister of State said the cabinet members have voluntarily agreed to 10 percent cut in their salaries.

Hammad Azhar said the main focus of the development budget is water related projects including dams. For this purpose, seventy billion rupees has been earmarked. Twenty billion rupees are being allocated for the land acquisition of Diamer Basha Dam and fifteen billion rupees for Mohmand Hydro power project.

About rail and road infrastructure projects, the Minister of State said that multi billion dollar China Pakistan Corridor Project will be given due focus about two hundred billion rupees are being earmarked for this purpose. Out of this amount 156 billion rupees will be spent through National highway Authority.

Giving a breakdown of road infrasrtructyure, he said twenty four billion rupees are being allocated for Havelia-Thakot, thirteen billion rupees for Burhan-Hakla motorway and nineteen billion rupees for Sukkur-Multan section of Peshawar-Karachi motorway.

In addition, Swat expressway will be extended from Chakdara to Bagh Deheri under public private partnership. Sambrial-Kharian Motorway will be constructed while dualization of Mianwali-Muzafargarh road will be carried out.

Hammad Azhar said the PTI government came to power with new vision and commitment and to bring change in the lives of people, ensure merit and protect the vulnerable segments of the society. The government took a number of steps to correct the course of economy.

Import duties were increased and imports reduced from 49 billion dollars to 45 billion dollars. Remittances increased by 2 billion dollars.

Circular debt was reduced by 12 billion rupees per month and it was brought down to 26 billion rupees from 38 billion rupees. Financial aid from China, UAE and Saudi Arabia helped stabilize the economy. Incentives for export sector were increased for three more years.

He said a program of 6 billoin dollars has been agreed with IMF. This will help us gain 2 to 3 billion dollars loan more at very economical rates. Oil payment deferred facility from Saudi Arabia will also help reduce pressure on the government.

Seven billion dollars reduction in Current Account Deficit will be achieved this year, which will be 6.5 billion dollars next year.

The Asset Declaration Scheme will bring the undeclared assets into mainstream and help increase revenue of the government. Tax policy has been separated from tax administration.

Pakistan Banao Certificates were issued in order to provide benefit to Overseas Pakistanis to invest in Pakistan. Billion Tree Tsunami and Clean and Green Pakistan initiatives were launched. In order to bring FATA into mainstream, special effort has been made.

He said in Naya Pakistan, the culture of tax evasion will be overcome. Civil and Defense authorities have agreed to voluntary reducen in their budgets.

The Minister of State for Finance said 58 billion rupees are being allocated in the budget for the human resource development. He said health, education, development targets and coping with climate change amongst our priorities. For this purpose, funds will be earmarked.

The Minister of State said land has been acquired in Lahore, Quetta, Peshawar, Islamabad and Faisalabad to execute Prime Minister's five million houses project, which he said will benefit 28 other aligned industries. He said investment is being arranged for this mega project, which will be expanded in the entire country.

This project will provide shelter to low income groups and trigger economic activity in the country. In the first phase, 25,000 housing units will be constructed in Rawalpindi and Islamabad; 110,000 units in Balochistan.

Hammad Azhar said the government is giving incentives and subsidies for the promotion of industrial sector in order to create employment opportunities for the youth. The steps include energy subsidies of 40 billion rupees and 40 billion rupees package for the export sector.

He said the government will maintain the long-term trade financing facility for the industrial sector.

He said the government is commencing 280 billion rupees five year programme for the uplift of agriculture sector. 44.8 billion rupees will be provided to increase the per acre yield of wheat, rice, sugarcane and cotton. On agriculture tube wells, 6.85 rupees per unit subsidy will be given to the farmers.

The federal and Balochistan governments have started a joint scheme with a ratio of 40:60 for the farmers of Balochistan. Under this scheme, monthly bill of 10,000 rupees is received from the farmers while the remaining burden of 75,000 rupees is being borne by both the governments.

He said the government is also providing insurance scheme to small famers in case of destruction of their crops due to any calamity. For this purpose, the new budget envisages an amount of 2.5 billion rupees.

Hammad Azhar said the government will introduce a comprehensive programme for the restructuring of the state institutions in order to improve governance and reduce burden on the national exchequer.

This year, he said, two LNG-powered power plants and some small organizations will be privatized, which will help generate 2 billion dollars. He said contacts have been made for foreign investment in Pakistan Steel Mills. He said an amount of one billion dollars is also expected from mobile phone licenses.

Government did not opt the option to increase General Sales Tax at the rate of 17 percent to collect revenue.

The Minister said it has been recommended to decrease the sales tax on brick kilns from existing rate of 17 percent and to replace it with in accordance with space and capacity.

It has also been proposed that sales tax on bakeries and restaurants be reduced from existing 17 percent to 7.5 percent. The Minister recommended to impose a uniform tax rate of 10 percent on milk, cream, dry milk and unflavored milk.

Hammad Azhar said exemption on provision of power industries in erstwhile tribal areas has been extended to industrial raw material and import of plant and machinery.

In the new budget, it has been proposed to impose 17 percent Federal Excise Duty as sales tax on various steel products. The budget envisages increase from 64.80 rupees per kilogram to 74.04 rupees per kilogram in the rates of CNG for dealers of value region I. In region II, rates have been increased from 57.60 rupees per kilogram to 69.57 rupees per kg.

The budgetary proposals ask for increase of sales tax on sugar from existing 8 percent to 17 percent which will likely to raise the price of this commodity by mere 3.65 rupees per kilogram. A seventeen percent sales tax has been recommended on semiprocessed and cooked products of chicken, mutton, beef and fish.

It has been proposed that 17 percent sales tax on marble industry. In order to discourage the consumption of sugary drinks, federal excise duty has been proposed to be 14 percent from existing 11.25 percent.

It has been recommended that the Federal Excise Duty on cooking oil/ghee be increased to 17 percent.

The FED on cement should be increased to from existing 1.2 rupees per kg to 2 rupees per kg. The budget proposals introduce 2.5 percent FED on 1000 cc cars, 5 percent on upto 2000 cc and 7.5 percent on more than 2000 cc cars.

The upper slab of FED on sale of cigarettes has been increased from 4500 rupees to 5200 rupees for 1000 sticks.

A tax rebate has been proposed for those employers who will provide jobs to fresh graduates. Tax limit on salaried class has been set at 600000 rupees per annum while it will be 400000 rupees per annum for non-salaried class.

It has been proposed that tax rate for companies should be fixed at 29 percent for the next two years.

The Minister of State said China-Pakistan Economic Corridor will remain our priority and new sectors have been added to it, including industrial development, agriculture and establishment of special economic zones. He said funds have been allocated for the ML-1 project as part of efforts to upgrade Pakistan Railways.

He said the federal government will provide 152 billion for the development of tribal districts merged recently with Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. He said there is also a ten-year government program for tribal districts for which the federal government will provide 48 billion rupees.

Hammad Azhar said money laundering is a curse, which causes damages to the country. He said a totally new system has been introduced to eliminate trade-based money laundering.

He said an amount of 10.4 billion rupees for second phase of Quetta Development package will be earmarked as part of development of Balochistan. He said a sum of 45.5 billion rupees will be spent on nine development projects in Karachi.

Hammad Azhar said employment creation is an important priority area of the government as Pakistan is a country of youth and the number of young people is rising. He said 28 industries will benefit from 5 million housing program of Prime Minister Imran Khan and create a number of jobs for the youth.

He said work on this project is gaining peace and land has been acquired in Islamabad, Lahore, and Faislabad. He said the Prime Minister has already inaugurated the project of constructing 25000 housing units in Rawalpindi/Islamabad and 110000 units in Balochistan.

The state minister said loans worth 100 billion rupees will be granted to youth to start their businesses under Kamyab Jawan Program.

The Minister of State for Finance said our aim during the financial year 2019-20 will be to increase the tax net.

Regretting the low tax to GDP ratio, he said the country can not make progress without payment of taxes. He appreciated the gesture of both the civilian government and the military leadership for voluntariliy deciding to cut their expenditures.

He said the civil expenditures will be reduced by five percent from 460 billion rupees to four hundred and thirty seven billion rupees. The defense expenditure will be maintained at 1150 billion rupees.

The Minister of state said we are firm for the defense and sovereignty of the country, and no compromise will be made on the defense capability of the country.

Giving the current economic situation, Hammad Azhar said the government has acted with responsibility and taken steps for the economic stabilization. We have increased importy duty which helped us bring down imports from forty nine billion dollars to forty five billion dollars. He said remittances have witnessed an increase of two billion dollars.

We are grateful to the friendly countries for providing financial assistance of 9.2 to Pakistan. He said the IMF package will also help the country steer the economy towards stability.