Source: Frontier Star
Publisher: Frontier Star Publisher
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 Asianet-Pakistan 
Publication Date: Nov 18, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Govt should not move SC against LHC decision for allowing Nawaz Sharif to travel abroad: Sheikh Rashid

Snippet: Railway Minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmad has said government should not resort to Supreme Court (SC) against Nawaz Sharif decision.

'Government should neither approach SC against Lahore High Court (LHC) decision on allowing Nawaz Sharif to go abroad nor will the apex court be approached on this count. A man is sick. Allow him to go abroad and no politics should be played on it. Lest film should run reverse, he said this while addressing a ceremony here Monday.

Body: 
Responding to a question about reshuffling in cabinet and removal of governor from his post he refused to have any information on this matter.

' I admit there is inflation and unemployment in the country and it lacks good governance. Prime Minister (PM) Imran Khan is working to rein in them. If he works he will earn respect', he remarked.

He said that 38 kilometer out of 43 kilometer track of Karachi Circular Railway has been got vacated. Over 10000 homes have been constructed on the remaining 5 kilometer. Sindh government should work for it and we are ready to provide this project to Sindh government.

Replying to a question about accidents he said there are negligence and lapses of Railway staff behind these accidents. This eliminated my achievements.

About Asif Zardari departure to foreign country he said this is case of 5 persons. 'I say with full responsibility all except Khurshid Shah are on plea bargain. While Khurshid Shah and Hamza Shahbaz stand extremely mired,

Earlier addressing the ceremony he said that Rawalpindi would be the first city of Pakistan which would have four universities.

A mother and child health care state of the art hospital with 14 operation theatres will be constructed in 200 kanal area at Khiaban Sir Syed Chowk Rawalpindi, he indicated.

Railway university is being built with the assistance of China and China will provide funds for it, he said adding land will be provided by Railway department and Chinese language will be given importance in this university.