Source: Kuwait News Agency (Kuna)
Publisher: Kuwait News Agency
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 All Kuna Rights are Reserved. Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company 
Publication Date: May 25, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Pakistan, China sign several MoUS of cooperation

Snippet: <figure><figcaption></figcaption></figure> ISLAMABAD, May 26 (KUNA) -- Pakistan and China on Sunday signed several Memorandums of Understanding (MoUs) for cooperation in different sectors during visit of Vice President of China, Wang Qishan to Islamabad, official media reported.

The signing ceremony was attended by Prime Minister of Pakistan, Imran Khan and Wang.

Body: 
These MoUs include cooperation in economic and technical affairs, Disaster Management and assistance in agriculture sector of Lasbella University.

Meanwhile, the two leaders launched and unveiled the plaques of the four mega development projects in the fields of energy, technology and education under China-Pakistan Economic Corridor.

The two leaders also inaugurated the Confucius Institute at the University of Punjab. The institute mainly provides Chinese education, cultural promotion and cultural exchanges and other projects and activities. The ceremony also marked the launching of Huawei Technical Support Center to be established in Pakistan as part of Chinese technology giant's commitment to make massive investment in Pakistan.

Moreover, Wang also met President Dr. Arif Alvi at the President House in Islamabad, and discussed bilateral relations and matters pertaining to mutual interests during the meeting.

Earlier in the day, Foreign Minister of Pakistan, Shah Mehmood Qureshi told press Wang's visit is a continuation of the high-level exchanges between the two countries, which have acquired an increased momentum since the Prime Minister's visit to China for his participation in the 2nd Belt and Road Forum in Beijing in April this year. (pickup previous) sbk.bs