Source: MarketLine News and Comment
Publisher: Progressive Digital Media Ltd
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019, MarketLine. All rights reserved 
Publication Date: Oct 23, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,heilon,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Siemens, Harbin win contract for 900MW power plant in Pakistan

Snippet: K-Electric, an electricity generation company based in Pakistan, has selected Siemens and Chinese contractor Harbin Electric for the construction of a 900MW combined cycle power plant, BQPS-III, and associated grids at Bin Qasim.

To be built with an investment of $650m, the power plant will be located at KE's Bin Qasim Power Complex and the project will include upgrades to associated transmission infrastructure. The power plant will be dual-fired with re-gasified liquid natural gas (RLNG) as the primary fuel.

Body: 
The BQPS-III project is claimed to be one of the largest private sector investments in Pakistan's power sector. The power plant is in line with K-Electric's vision of improving its generation fleet efficiency. It is also one of the several projects planned to replace older plants with newer and more efficient units, the company said.

The contract was signed by K-Electric CEO Moonis Alvi, Siemens executive vice president Keramat Fakhari and Harbin Electric International chairman Guo Yu.

K-Electric intends to execute the project on a fast track, and the additional power is expected to be made available by summer 2021.

Alvi said: "The 900 MW BQPS-III is essential in meeting Karachi's future energy demands. The aim is to commission the project in the fastest possible time, and we are confident that with the right facilitation from all quarters, power from the plant may be added to our supply as soon as summer of 2021.

"An investment of the size and magnitude of BQPS-III is a testament to KE's commitment to improving the reliability of power supply for its customers."

Siemens Pakistan CEO and managing director Helmut von Struve said: "We're proud to be supporting the energy needs of Karachi with efficient, environmentally friendly technology for power generation, such as the SGT5-4000F gas turbines renowned for high performance and low-cost power generation."

A reliable, robust and efficient electricity supply is essential to power economic growth and societal development, and our global expertise in delivering such projects makes us an ideal partner to support K-Electric's long-term vision."

The project forms part of K-Electric's plan, which was drafted after carrying out a study to review options to increase power generation capacity, including long-term off-take of additional power from the national grid to bridge the gap between supply and demand and decommission the furnace oil-based BQPS-I plant.

The company is also in talks with the Government of Pakistan to increase the supply from the national grid and in this regard, discussions for the supply of 500MW from KANUPP-2 and KANUPP-3 are in advanced stage.