Source: Pakistan Official News
Publisher: Asianet-Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: (c) 2019. AsiaNet-Pakistan 
Publication Date: Jan 06, 2019

Region Codes: ,punjab,india,china,laho,pakis,shand,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Huaneng Shandong Ruyi delegation calls on Chief Minister Punjab - Press Note issued by Directorate General Public Relations, Punjab

Snippet: Asianet Pakistan Private Limited

January 07, 2019 (PPI-OT)

Body: 
Following is the text of press note issued by Directorate General Public Relations, Punjab (DGPR)

Quote

A Chinese delegation led by Mr. Wang Xu President of Huaneng Shandong Ruyi called on Punjab Chief Minister Sardar Usman Buzdar at his office here on Monday. Talking on the occasion, Chief Minister said that bilateral relations between Pakistan and China are touching new heights adding that China has always sided with Pakistan in every difficult situation. We appreciate Chinese investment in Pakistan as a number of projects, which have been started in collaboration with China, are running successfully.

Meanwhile, investment environment has been boosted further due to the multibillion dollar CPEC project. He added that best investment opportunities are available in Punjab adding that provincial government will provide all the necessary facilities to the Chinese companies that would make investment in the Punjab. We would welcome the investment of Chinese company in energy and other sectors, he added. He also congratulated the delegation on the advent of new Chinese year.

Mr. Wang Xu said that Huaneng Shandong Ruyi will setup its office in Punjab and hoped that new investment opportunities will be created as a result of it. We want to expand cooperation in textile and other sectors as well. He also briefed the Chief Minister about company's performance and its projects' details. The delegation also extended an invitation to the Chief Minister to visit Shandong. Vice President Huaneng Shandong Liu Jie, CEO Sahiwal Coal Power Plant Mr. Song Taji, CEO Ruyi Group Li Aiying were included in the delegation. Chairman P and D, Principal Secretary to CM, Secretary Energy, MD Punjab Power Development Board and others were also present in the meeting.

For more information, contact:Directorate General Public Relations, Punjab (DGPR)Government of the Punjab21-Mahmood Gaznavi Road (Abbot Road), Lahore, PakistanTel: +92-42-99201390-1-2Fax: +92-42-99201371-2E-mail: info@dgpr.punjab.gov.pkWebsite: www.dgpr.punjab.gov.pk

Unquote