Source: National Herald Tribune
Publisher: National Herald Tribune
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. National Herald Tribune. 
Publication Date: Jun 10, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,kash,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: CPEC is the flagship project of BRI: AJK President

Snippet: Sardar Masood Khan, President Azad Kashmir, has said that the China Pakistan Economic Corridor is the flagship project of the Belt and Road Initiative and will play a transformative role for Pakistan and AJK, helping change the destiny of the region. CPEC will bring to AJK four mega projects including two hydropower projects, the Mansehra-MuzaffarabadMirpur Expressway joining all of AJK to the western CPEC route and a modern Special Economic Zone in Mirpur. The President made these remarks while addressing the book-launching ceremony of "The Road to Leadership" authored by the eminent TV presenter and journalist Group Captain (R) S.M. Hali here at Pakistan Institute of Parliamentary Services.

Body: 
The event was attended and addressed by H.E. Yao Jing, Chinese Ambassador to Pakistan, Senator Mushahid Hussain Sayyed, Chairman Senate Foreign Committee, Tariq Fatemi, former Special Assistant on Foreign Affairs to the Prime Minister, Group Caption SM Hali, Lt General (R) Asif Yasin Malik and Professor Li Xiguang, Professor at Tsinghua University. The President expressed his appreciation at Group Captain S.M. Hali's effort for writing this seminal book on the great Chinese leader, President Xi Jinping. The book brings to light the fascinating aspects of President Xi Jinping life and how he had over the years groomed himself to rise above challenges and adversities to reach the high office of President. President AJK said that President Xi Jinping has been called the most influential by world leaders due to his position and influence, being the leader of the Central Military Commission (CMC) and Secretary General of - the most well organised political party in the world -the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China.