Source: dpa International Service in English
Publisher: dpa Deutsche Presse-Agentur GmbH
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright 2019. dpa Deutsche Presse-Agentur 
Publication Date: Apr 25, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Pakistan PM Khan to seek Chinese help as economic crisis deepens

Snippet: Islamabad (dpa) - Pakistan will seek financial aupport from close ally China to shore up its troubled economy, officials said on Thursday, as Prime Minister Imran Khan flew to Beijing.

Khan would be among more than three dozen global leaders participating in a forum on Chinese President Xi Jinping's flagship Belt and Road Initiative, Pakistan's Foreign Ministry said.

Body: 
The premier would also meet the heads of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the ministry added.

"We are looking for some substantial support and more investments," said Abdul Razzaq Daud, Khan's adviser on trade.

Pakistan, the Muslim world's only nuclear power, is seeking an up to 8-billion-dollar bailout package from the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to avoid default on its international liability.

The economy of the 220-million strong nation has been in crisis since Khan took over last year due to burgeoning fiscal and current account deficits and a huge dip in tax collection.

China has been building a road and sea route through Pakistan to reach markets in the Middle East, Europe and Africa since 2015.

Beijing had pledged 62 billion dollars in investment under the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) project which is part of the Belt and Road Initiative.

Pakistan and China were set sign a free trade agreement during Khan's visit, Daud said, hoping the deal would help Islamabad increase stagnant exports.

Another 7-billion-dollar project to replace colonial-era rail tracks in Pakistan would also be signed, Railways Minister Sheikh Rashid said.

The visit comes days after Khan replaced his finance minister to offset criticism of his economic policies.

# Notebook