Source: BBC Monitoring South Asia
Publisher: The British Broadcasting Corporation
Byline: 
Copyright: (c) 2019 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation. 
Publication Date: Jun 23, 2019

Region Codes: ,afgh,pakis,laho,asiaz,casiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Press selection list for Afghan newspapers 23 Jun 19

Snippet: Newspapers published in Kabul

Hasht-e Sobh (independent)

Body: 
1. Editorial entitled "Messengers of solidarity and vitality" hails Afghanistan's national futsal team for its great achievements in the recent international tournament, calling on political personalities to learn a lesson from the hard work and commitment by the country's athletes, calling on the government to do more to support sportsmen and athletes. (p 2, about 700 words in Dari, NPP)

2. Article by Khalil Asir entitled "Government silent about Lahore conference" (p 3, about 1,200 words in Dari, NPP)

3. Article by Ferdaus entitled "Has Pakistan's policy changed?" accuses Pakistan of pursuing a policy of duplicity and hypocrisy towards Afghanistan, and lashes out at the Afghan political personalities who have arrived in Lahore city to hold talks with Pakistani officials about Afghan peace and reconciliation. It says Pakistan is still trying to persuade discontented Afghan politicians and former jihadi leaders to confront with the central government. (p 4, about 1,200 words in Dari, NPP)

4. Article by Abdul Ahmad Hussein entitled "No sponsor to fund elections" says although Afghanistan is going to experience presidential elections in the coming few months, no donor has shown interest in funding the elections. (p 5, about 1,000 words in Dari, NPP)

Mandegar (private)

1. Editorial entitled "Why is Ghani not committed to law?" accuses President Ghani of breaching the law and of monopolising the country's executive powers, saying a majority of ordinary people have now distanced themselves from the government due to the president's poor performance. It stresses that the president should step down as his five-year tenure has already ended. (p 2, about 900 words in Dari, EXCERPT 450 words)

2. Article by Kamaluddin Hamid entitled "Legal position of peace in Islamic Sharia" calls on the Taliban to renounce violence and join the peace process if they truly respect the religion of Islam. It stresses that every effort should be made to end the current Afghan conflict saying civilians have been the main victims of the conflict. (p 7, about 2,000 words in Dari, NPP)

3. Article by Ahmad Emran entitled "Elections at risk of being engineered" endorses the remarks by Maulana Abdullah, a commissioner of the Independent Election Commission, who recently alleged that the government is planning to engineer the upcoming presidential elections. It believes if President Ghani manages to rule the country till the elections, the Afghans will experience another controversial elections. (p 2, about 1,200 words in Dari, NPP)

4. Article by Abobaker Sediq entitled "What is Pakistan's role in Afghan war?" endorses the allegation that the Taliban will be unable to continue fighting the Afghan security and defence forces without Pakistan's cooperation. It believes the Taliban will be able to get extra concessions in the peace process if they do not feel immense military pressure on the battlefield. (p 6, about 1,800 words in Dari, NPP)

Weesa (private)

1. Editorial entitled "Does US want peace or continuation of war?" is not sceptical about the US-Taliban talks saying top American officials always say that Afghanistan will never achieve lasting peace even if the Taliban renounce violence and join the peace process. It argues that the National Unity Government is not determined to consider a solution to the country's military crisis, saying regional countries are truly concerned about the security situation in Afghanistan. (p 2, about 500 words in Pashto, PROCESSING)

2. Article by Mohammad Zubair Shafiqi entitled "National hero whose rights have not been respected yet" praises Ghazi Mohammad Jan Khan for his valour and heroism during the Great Britain invasion of Afghanistan. It lashes out at the National Unity Government for paying no attention to the aspirations of the country's true heroes who have lost their lives in the fight against colonial powers. (pp 1, 4, about 2,000 words in Pashto, NPP)

3. Article by Khan Afzal Hadawal entitled "Why do Afghanis continue to fall?" describes political instability, smuggling of currencies, neighbouring countries' declining economy, lack of domestic production, and unproductive financial system as big factors behind the fall of Afghanistan's national currency against dollar. (p 3, about 1,200 words in Pashto, NPP)

4. Article by Faiz Mohammad Faiz entitled "Iran will not be impotent and similar to Iraq" comments on the recent spate of political and military tensions between the US and Iran, saying the latter has been a powerful country in the region during the past 15 years. (p 2, about 1,800 words in Pashto, NPP)

Arman-e Melli (close to the National Union of Journalists of Afghanistan)

1. Editorial entitled "Will Pakistan desist from policy of hypocrisy?" is not confident whether Pakistan is interested in establishing peace and stability in Afghanistan, saying there is no doubt that Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) has been supporting the Taliban and other dangerous militant groups to continue fighting the Afghan security and defence forces, calling on Afghan leaders to take the country's national interests into account. (p 2, about 700 words in Dari, EXCERPT 300 words)

2. Article by Ahmad Sayidi entitled "Afghan delegation's Pakistan visit" comments on the Taliban group's new preconditions for peace talks. It lashes out at the political personalities, including Hezb-e Islami leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and former Balkh governor Atta Mohammad Noor, for attending a conference on Afghan peace in Pakistan's Lahore city. (p 6, about 1,000 words in Dari, NPP)

3. Article by Noorullah Walizada entitled "What does political leaders' Pakistan visit mean?" highlights political tensions between Afghanistan and Pakistan, saying a number of Afghan politicians are doing everything to find a solution to the dispute over the Durand Line - a controversial borderline between Afghanistan and Pakistan. It warns existing differences between government leaders and political leaders will prove dangerous for Afghanistan's security and stability. (p 2, about 1,200 words in Dari, NPP)

The Daily Afghanistan (private)

1. Editorial by Mohammad Hedayat entitled "Pakistan and continuation of deep strategic theory" lashes out at the Afghan political personalities who hold symbolic meetings on peace in Russia and Pakistan, saying Pakistan has been trying to increase internal differences in Afghanistan and this is why it wants to establish amicable relations with Afghan politicians and former jihadi leaders. It comments on President Ghani's upcoming Islamabad visit. (p 2, about 900 words in Dari, EXCERPT 400 words)

2. Article translated by Khair Mohammad Moqaddasi entitled "Police's performance in Afghanistan's far-flung areas; this war seems to be unending" comments on recent clashes between the Taliban and the government forces in eastern Nuristan province's Want Waigal district. It quotes some police personnel serving in the province as saying that the Afghan war will take many more years. (p 6, about 1,200 words in Dari, NPP)

3. Article by Mohammad Salim Naji entitled "Peace conference in Islamabad; being weary of sidelining or start of new process?" attacks the Afghan politicians and former jihadi leaders who recently attended a peace conference in Pakistan without the Afghan government's presence. It says there is no doubt that the politicians who have serious differences with the government are now making every effort to win regional countries' political support. (p 3, about 1,200 words in Dari, NPP)

4. Article by Sayed Latif Sajadi entitled "Real peace depends on national unity" believes Afghanistan will achieve lasting peace without regional countries' support if the country's political personalities persuade ordinary people to maintain unity and set aside ethnic and sectarian differences. It calls on the public to continue supporting their security and defence forces in the war on terror. (p 3, about 1,200 words in Dari, NPP)

5. Report entitled "Residents of Helmand call for ceasefire, peace" says a number of people in southern Helmand province attend a gathering in provincial capital Lashkargah to call on the Taliban to declare a ceasefire and hold direct talks with the Afghan government. (p 2, about 300 words in Dari, NPP)

The Daily Afghanistan (private) 20 June

1. Editorial by Mohammad Hedayat entitled "Continuation of humiliation in nation's house" lashes out at members of the lower house of parliament for failing to settle the dispute over the appointment of the lower house's speaker. It says there is no doubt that a majority of ordinary people are dissatisfied with the lawmakers' poor performance, calling on the government to put pressure on the lower house to appoint a speaker as soon as possible. (p 2, about 900 words in Dari, NPP)

2. Article by Aminullah Amini entitled "On occasion of World Refugee Day; unsolved problems of refugees" highlights Afghan refugees' problems in Iran, Pakistan, and European countries. It calls on the National Unity Government to take action to facilitate the refugees' repatriation as soon as possible, saying Pakistan and Iran should stop harassing, ill-treating, imprisoning, and disrespecting Afghan refugees. (p 3, about 1,800 words in Dari, NPP)

3. Article by Mohammad Zahir Shoban entitled "Why should region fight terrorist groups collectively?" warns the militants operating in Afghanistan will prove dangerous for the entire region if powerful regional countries, especially Russia, Iran, Pakistan and China, do not play a key role in eliminating terrorism and insurgency. It endorses the remarks that Afghanistan has been on the front line of the war on terror during the past 18 years. (p 3, about 2,000 words in Dari, NPP)

Eslah (state-run)

1. Editorial entitled "Pakistan should take sincere step towards Afghan peace process" condemns the absence of the Afghan government in the peace conference recently held in Pakistan, calling on the political personalities and former jihadi leaders who have attended the conference not to be deceived by Pakistan's pledges and commitments. It calls on Pakistan to take practical steps if it is truly determined to end the Afghan conflict. (pp 1, 5, about 900 words in Dari, NPP)

2. Unattributed article entitled "Prevention of polio vaccination by Taliban and concerns about spread of this dangerous illness" lashes out at the Taliban for not allowing mobile teams to visit people's homes with the aim of vaccinating the children who live in violence-hit areas. It calls on the militants to respect humanity and not to play with children's lives. (p 2, about 900 words in Dari, NPP)

Etilaat-e Roz (private)

1. Article by Khadem Azad entitled "Regional consensus on peace; what is President Ghani searching for?" dismisses the remarks that the US and Russia have serious differences over the nature of the US-Taliban talks in Qatar, saying President Ghani has been making every effort to persuade powerful regional countries, including China and Russia, to put pressure on the Taliban to hold direct talks with the Afghan government. (p 4, about 2,000 words in Dari, NPP)

Etilaat-e Roz 22 June

1. Editorial entitled "Need to probe another accusation; shall we experience another humiliating elections?" comments on the remarks by Maulana Mohammad Abdullah, a commissioner of the Independent Election Commission, who recently alleged that the process of recruitment to the commission is not transparent. It calls on the government to form and task an independent commission to probe the allegation. (pp 1, 2, about 700 words in Dari, NPP)

2. Article by Sher Mehryar entitled "Sexual issues and diversion of ideology" calls on the Attorney-General's Office to share the result of its investigation about alleged moral corruption in the presidential palace with the media. It stresses that the individuals who are planning to stop women from serving in government should be put on trial. (p 5, about 1,800 words in Dari, NPP)

3. Article by Besmellah Naderi entitled "Afghanistan on front line of war on terror" calls on powerful regional countries to sincerely cooperate with Afghanistan to crush terrorism and insurgency. It believes the war on terror will yield an acceptable result of the international community continues to support the Afghan security and defence forces financially and militarily for several more years. (p 3, about 600 words in Dari, NPP)

Hewad (state-run)

1. Editorial entitled "How should Afghan guests respond to Islamabad's misbehaviour?" accuses Pakistan of trying to persuade former Afghan jihadi leaders and political personalities to stand against the National Unity Government, saying there is no difference between the Moscow conference on peace and the conference recently held in Pakistan's Lahore city. It calls on the Afghan government to crush irreconcilable insurgents. (p 2, about 650 words in Pashto, EXPERT 300 words)

2. Article by Shah Wali Qarar Shinwari entitled "Instead of holding conferences on peace, Taliban and Pakistan should come under immense pressure" believes terrorism and insurgency will continue to claims civilian lives in Afghanistan if Pakistan is not stopped from supporting the Taliban. It lashes out at the political personalities who have flown to Pakistan to attend a symbolic conference on Afghan peace. (pp 2, 5, about 1,600 words in Pashto, NPP)

3. Article by Mohammad Sami Sadiq entitled "Is Imran Khan truly mentally ill?" (p 2, about 1,200 words in Pashto, NPP)

4. Article by Mohammad Aziz Pardes entitled "Need to fight poverty seriously" is concerned about uncontrolled poverty and unemployment in Afghanistan, saying the children who are unable to seek proper education due to poverty should be assisted and provided with financial assistance. It believes a majority of unemployed people will flight to European countries if the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs fails to discharge its duties and responsibilities appropriately. (p 4, about 2,000 words in Pashto, NPP)

5. Article by Riaz Ahmad Miakhel entitled "Uncertain fate of Afghan refugees in France" is concerned about the deplorable condition of Afghan refugees in France and other European countries, saying a majority of Afghan refugees have failed to apply for asylum. It urges Afghanistan's Refugees and Returnees Ministry to discharge its duties and responsibilities appropriately by creating job opportunities for educated young people. (pp 2, 5, about 900 words in Pashto, NPP)

Maseer (private)

1. Editorial entitled "Pakistan's role in current efforts to establish peace in Afghanistan" describes Pakistan's role in the Afghan peace process as significant, saying it is Pakistan that has been sponsoring, nurturing, sheltering, and training the Taliban during the past two decades. It believes if regional countries, including Pakistan, take action to end the Afghan conflict, the US forces will be obliged to abandon Afghanistan. (p 2, about 600 words in Pashto, NPP)

2. Unattributed article entitled "Between concerns and ambiguities; seventh round of Qatar talks to be held in two days" says the past six rounds of the US-Taliban talks have inculcated in the minds of Afghan political observers that Afghanistan will not achieve lasting peace in two or three years. It is not sure whether US special envoy for Afghanistan reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad will be able to persuade the Taliban to hold talks with the Afghan government. (p 3, about 700 words in Pashto, NPP)

Newspapers published in Herat

Etefaq-e Islam (state-run daily) 20 June

1. Abdul Qayyum Rahimi, governor of western Herat province, has presided over a meeting with a number of provincial officials in his office. The meeting considered ways to strengthen domestic production and prevent import of foreign goods which are also produced inside Afghanistan into the province. The governor stressed that local people should play a role in boosting the country's economy and agriculture. (p 1, about 300 words in Dari, NPP)

2. Governor Rahimi has chaired a meeting of provincial officials in his office. In the meeting, the governor stressed the need for taking effective steps to help diminish violence against women and children in all parts of Herat. (p 1, about 200 words in Dari, NPP)

3. Report says differences and disputes among lawmakers over the appointment of speaker of the lower house of parliament remain unsettled. Two days ago, lawmakers engaged in a physical clash inside the lower house. MP Kamal Nasir Osuli says he will not allow MP Mir Rahman Rahmani to become the lower house's speaker in an illegal manner. (p 4, about 200 words in Dari, NPP)

Etefaq-e Islam (state-run daily) 19 June

1. Governor Rahimi has met with the Turkish ambassador to Afghanistan. In the meeting, the governor underscored the importance of direct flights between Herat province and Turkey and urged the ambassador to accelerate the process of launching the flights. The ambassador pledged to provide every facility to the Afghan national who run business in Turkey. (p 1, about 250 words in Dari, NPP)

2. Afghan national security adviser Hamdullah Mohib has said at a security summit in Russia that at least 50 Afghan nationals are killed in armed conflicts in Afghanistan every day and that it shows that Afghanistan has been on the front line of the war on terror during the past 18 years. (p 1, about 250 words in Dari, NPP)

3. Local officials say a 10-year-old girl has died in a land mine explosion in Achin district of eastern Nangarhar province. Local officials hold the Islamic State (IS) group accountable for the tragedy. (p 4, about 200 words in Dari, NPP)

Source: As listed Source: Afghan press selection list in Dari and Pashto 23 Jun 19