Source: BBC Monitoring South Asia
Publisher: The British Broadcasting Corporation
Byline: 
Copyright: (c) 2019 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation. 
Publication Date: Jun 24, 2019

Region Codes: ,afgh,pakis,kabul,asiaz,casiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Press selection list for Afghan newspapers 24 Jun 19

Snippet: Newspapers published in Kabul

Hasht-e Sobh (independent)

Body: 
1. Editorial entitled "Decrease of troops should take place cautiously" comments on US President Donald Trump's statement that his country is planning to decrease its troops in Afghanistan, saying electoral issues in the US should not adversely impact the coalition forces' presence in Afghanistan. It believes the Taliban will step up their attacks if they feel that the US is determined to abandon Afghanistan. (p 2, about 700 words in Dari, PROCESSING)

2. Article by Wahid Paiman entitled "Futsal should not become football" praises Afghanistan's national futsal team for its brilliant performance in the recent south Asian tournament, calling on the government to pay a greater attention to the problems of the country's athletes. It urges the futsal federation to search for hidden talents and do more to strengthen the national futsal team. (p 6, about 1,600 words in Dari, NPP)

3. Article by Ferdaus entitled "Meaningless, unproductive conference" says the conference attended by a number of Afghan politicians and former jihadi leaders in Pakistan's capital city of Islamabad did have a clear political message. It argues that Pakistan is still interested in interfering in the internal affairs of Afghanistan, saying there is no doubt that Hezb-e Islami leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar used to live in Pakistan before reaching the peace deal with Kabul. (p 4, about 1,400 words in Dari, NPP)

4. Report by Hasib Bahsh entitled "Keramuddin Karim has not been detained yet" says, despite the Interior Ministry has announced that it will soon detain Keramuddin Karim, former chairman of Afghanistan Football Federation, he is still at large. Karim is accused of sexually harassing some female members of the country's female football team. (p 2, about 900 words in Dari, NPP)

5. Article by Sayed Hasan Hussein entitled "Presidential elections candidates take big step to launch premature publicity campaign in Herat" accuses President Ghani and his team members of launching an indirect publicity campaign in western Herat province, calling on the election commissions, the security forces and the Attorney-General's Office not to allow any presidential elections candidate to visit provinces with the aim of increasing their supporters. (p 5, about 1,800 words in Dari, NPP)

Mandegar (private)

1. Editorial entitled "Independent Election Commission's first step towards independence" praises the Independent Election Commission (IEC) for exposing the presidential palace's (the Afghan president's office) alleged interference in the IEC's work. It urges the election commissions' commissioners to act bravely and not succumb to any government official's pressure, saying the president is planning to engineer the coming presidential elections. (p 2, about 900 words in Dari, EXCERPT 400 words)

2. Unattributed article entitled "What will Afghanistan do against Islamic State prisoners?" discusses the detention by government forces of more than 150 Islamic State militants in the country's north last years, saying the militants who have been detained during clashes should not be freed and forgiven anymore. (p 3, about 1,000 words in Dari, NPP)

3. Article by Ahmad Emran entitled "What is our viewpoint about Lahore Process conference?" says President Ghani neither wins the war on terror nor is he able to make the peace process a success. It discusses the importance of Afghan politicians' recent Pakistan visit where they attended a conference on Afghan peace. (p 2, about 900 words in Dari, NPP)

4. Article by Kamaluddin Hamid entitled "Legal position of peace in Islamic Sharia" calls on the Taliban to respect the aspirations of the people of Afghanistan by renouncing violence and joining the peace process. It says the religion of Islam does not allow anyone or any militant group to shed the blood of innocent people. (p 7, about 2,000 words in Dari, NPP)

Weesa (private)

1. Editorial entitled "Murree conference, repetition of old and meaningless slogans" stresses that relations between Afghanistan and Pakistan should come to normal before discussing the Durand Line - a controversial borderline between the two countries. It says the nations living on both sides of the controversial borderline have the right to make a decision in this regard, describing the recent two-day peace conference in Pakistan as futile. (p 2, about 550 words in Pashto, PROCESSING)

2. Article by Aziz Chopan entitled "Parallel movement of peace and war" says the matter of concern is that the more people's hopes for peace and reconciliation revive and increase, the more the war and violence escalate and become bloodier in Afghanistan. It believes the Taliban will be forced to renounce violence and join the peace process if the US and its international allies fight terrorism and insurgency honestly. (pp 1, 4, about 2,000 words in Pashto, NPP)

3. Unattributed article entitled "Strength of Islamic State's Afghanistan branch; US does not tell the truth" accuses the US of overplaying the Islamic State (IS) in Afghanistan's eastern and northern provinces, saying the fact is that a majority of the Afghans are not interested in the bloodthirsty militant group. It warns if the IS is not crushed and eliminated in Afghanistan, regional countries will not remain silent in this regard. (p 3, about 1,200 words in Pashto, NPP)

4. Article by Khan Afzal Hadawal entitled "Why do Afghanis continue to fall?" describes political instability, smuggling of currencies, neighbouring countries' declining economy, lack of domestic production, and unproductive financial system as big factors behind the fall of Afghanistan's national currency against dollar. (p 3, about 1,200 words in Pashto, NPP)

Arman-e Melli (close to the National Union of Journalists of Afghanistan)

1. Editorial entitled "Kabul municipality should make logical use of its security personnel" discusses the establishment of an armed unit that is responsible for taking action against land usurpers and the individuals who disrespect the municipality's orders and instructions in Kabul city. It stresses that the security personnel should act bravely and not succumb to anyone's pressure. (p 2, about 600 words in Dari, NPP)

2. Article by Noorullah Walizada entitled "Does result of war and enmity between Tajiks and Pakistan increase ethnic group's isolation in country's big decisions?" comments on political personality Abdul Latif Pedram's remarks that former President Burhanuddin Rabbani and Ahmad Shah Massoud, a commander of the Northern Alliance, were mistaken by pursuing enmity with Pakistan. It says the Tajik ethnic group now feels that its long-lasting resistance against Pakistan is downgraded by the government. (p 3, about 1,700 words in Dari, NPP)

3. Article by Abdul Raziq Watanpal Ferotan entitled "Need to prevent development of system of capitalism" is concerned over Afghanistan's declining economy, saying powerful individuals and top government officials continue to perpetrate corruption and embezzlement. It warns the security situation will deteriorate further if poor and destitute people are not assisted properly. (p 1,200 words in Dari, NPP)

4. Article by Narges Etimad entitled "Shadow of ethnic-centric policies on legislative branch" endorses the allegation that the current tensions among Afghan lawmakers have added fuel to ethnic differences in the country, saying the presidential palace is blameworthy as it failed to pave the ground for transparent, free, credible, and fair parliamentary elections. (p 2, about 1,200 words in Dari, NPP)

The Daily Afghanistan (private)

1. Editorial by Mohammad Hedayat entitled "Vicious circle of Afghan peace process" believes US special envoy for Afghanistan reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad will be unable to make the peace process a success as it says the recent six rounds of the US-Taliban talks have not yielded any tangible result yet. It describes the absence of the Afghan government in the US-Taliban talks as a big cause of unproductivity of the peace process. (p 2, about 900 words in Dari, EXCERPT 500 words)

2. Article by Hussein Ahmadi entitled "Jihadi figures trying to go through another scenario" accuses a number of former jihadi leaders of planning to get concessions in the peace process, saying the Taliban group's consistent opposition to the Afghan government has been beneficial for self-serving political personalities and former warlords. It believes a regional and global consensus will not be forged without the forging of a national consensus. (p 3, about 1,600 words in Dari, NPP)

3. Article by Ahmad Mohammadi entitled "Unemployment or work for nothing?" warns uncontrolled poverty and unemployment will prove dangerous for Afghanistan's security and stability, saying there is no doubt that a number of jobless young people join militant ranks who then come to the battlefield to fight the national armed forces. It urges the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to create job opportunities as a priority. (p 3, about 1,800 words in Dari, NPP)

Eslah (state-run)

1. Editorial entitled "Sport, tool to create empathy and strengthen national unity among different strata of nation" hails Afghanistan's national futsal team for its outstanding performance in the recent tournament among south Asian countries. It describes sport as a symbol of national unity among the people of Afghanistan, calling on the government to provide all the necessary facilities to athletes and sportspeople. (pp 1, 2, about 900 words in Dari, NPP)

2. Article by Ahmad Zaki Sarwari entitled "Not only men perpetrate violence against women" highlights Afghan women's problems, calling on the Ministry of Women's Affairs and international human rights bodies to take action to look into deprived Afghan women's problems. It stresses that that violence-hit women should be provided with necessary facilities. (p 4, about 2,000 words in Dari, NPP)

Etilaat-e Roz (private)

1. Editorial entitled "Need to investigate allegation; does China give legitimacy to Taliban?" comments on the remarks by Maulawi Abdul Salam Hanafi, deputy head of the Taliban political office in Qatar, who recently said in a telephone conversation that China warmly welcomed the Taliban delegation led by Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar and discussed economic, political and trade issues with it. It calls on Kabul to ask the Chinese embassy to give clarifications in this regard (pp 1, 2, about 800 words in Dari, PROCESSING)

Hewad (state-run)

1. Editorial entitled "Pakistan, Moscow hold ceremonial and ineffective meetings on peace" accuses Pakistan of interfering in the internal affairs of Afghanistan, calling on Afghan jihadi leaders and political personalities not to be deceived by the Pakistani government's duplicitous policies. It urges the US and the international community to put pressure on Pakistan in an attempt to make it facilitate intra-Afghan dialogue. (p 2, about 600 words in Pashto, EXCERPT 300 words)

2. Article by Mir Masjedi Azizi entitled "TAPI project, point of economic convergence in region" gives an assurance that the Afghan government is determined to expand trade relations with the entire region. It describes the TAPI gas pipeline project as a big opportunity for Turkmenistan, Afghanistan, Pakistan, and India to expand their trade and economic ties. (pp 3, 5, about 1,600 words in Dari, NPP)

3. Article by Mohammad Anwar Walid entitled "Afghanistan's natural resources" believes Afghanistan's electricity problems will be solved if the country's rivers are exploited properly. It calls on the Ministry of Mines and Petroleum to persuade foreign investors to invest in untapped mines and other underground resources. (p 4, about 2,000 words in Pashto, NPP)

4. Article by Riaz Ahmad Miakhel entitled "Uncertain fate of Afghan refugees in France" is concerned about the deplorable condition of Afghan refugees in France and other European countries, saying a majority of Afghan refugees have failed to apply for asylum. It urges Afghanistan's Refugees and Returnees Ministry to discharge its duties and responsibilities appropriately by creating job opportunities for educated young people. (pp 3, 5, about 900 words in Pashto, NPP)

5. Article by Shah Wali Qarar Shinwari entitled "Deceitful and two-faced Pakistani government wants to fool international community by holding meetings on peace" calls on the US and other NATO member countries not to come under the delusion that Pakistan is in favour of lasting peace and stability in Afghanistan. It argues that Pakistani intelligence officials are now doing everything to ease global pressure on their country. (p 2, about 2,000 words in Pashto, NPP)

Maseer (private)

1. Editorial entitled "Questions and concerns about Islamic State need response" calls on the US and other Western countries to give clarifications about increased presence of Islamic State (IS) militants in Afghanistan, saying the Taliban are concerned about the US's alleged assistance to the IS. It says a majority of the Afghans now feel that the Taliban will be replaced with the IS and that the war will drag on even if the Taliban renounce violence and join the peace process. (p 2, about 600 words in Pashto, PROCESSING)

2. Article by Jamil Waqar entitled "Afghan peace under US-Iran possible war" believes political and military tensions between the US and Iran will adversely impact the Afghan peace process, saying Afghanistan is a poor and war-stricken country and this is why it will be unable to remain impartial about confrontations between the US and Iran. (p 3, about 1,200 words in Pashto, NPP)

3. Article by Mushtaq Rahim entitled "Why behind-the-scene diplomacy important for Afghanistan?" (p 2, about 1,800 words in Pashto, NPP)

Sarkhat (private)

1. Editorial entitled "Friendship between land usurpers and mayor" accuses Kabul municipality of succumbing to powerful individuals' pressure, saying the capital city's strategic areas are now in control of mafia circles and former warlords who it says have always created challenges for the municipality. It calls on the municipality to take action against the individuals who are busy constructing substandard townships in Kabul. (p 2, about 600 words in Dari, NPP)

2. Unattributed article entitled "What does Pakistan want, Afghan peace or legitimacy of Durand Line?" accuses Pakistan of making every legal and illegal effort to get the Durand Line - a controversial borderline between Afghanistan and Pakistan - internationally recognised. It lashes out at the Afghan politicians who recently visited Pakistan with the aim of attending a symbolic meeting on Afghan peace in Lahore city. (p 2, about 1,000 words in Pashto, NPP)

Source: As listed Source: Afghan press selection list in Dari and Pashto 24 Jun 19