Source: Economist Intelligence Unit - ViewsWire
Publisher: The Economist Intelligence Unit, N.A., Inc.
Byline: 
Copyright: (C) 2019 The Economist Intelligence Unit Ltd. 
Publication Date: Jan 17, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Pakistan economy: Quick View - Government shelves a CPEC power project

Snippet: Event

According to local media reports, the government has decided to cancel a planned 1,320-MW coal-fired power project that was originally part of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) initiative.

Body: 
Analysis

This development is broadly in line with our expectation that economic difficulties will force the Tehreek-e-Insaaf-led government in Pakistan to curtail spending on CPEC-related projects. The shelving of the power project comes after a key railway scheme, the Karachi-Peshawar Main Line-1 project, was reduced in scope by US$2bn in October 2018. Since the implementation of CPEC-the centrepiece of growing Sino-Pakistan ties-began in 2016, a number of energy and transportation projects have been initiated. While these have helped to fill critical infrastructure gaps in Pakistan, they have also strained the government's resources, due to the projects' capital-intensive nature. Spending on CPEC was one reason for a wide fiscal deficit in 2018, estimated at the equivalent of 5.4% of GDP.

In addition to pressure on budget expenditure, the power project seems to have been dropped as the government appears satisfied with existing and planned power-generation capacity. More broadly, the current government is seeking a policy shift in the focus of the CPEC, away from infrastructure and towards industrialisation in Pakistan over the coming years. In recent ministerial discussions, officials have encouraged export-oriented Chinese manufacturing to be re-located to Pakistan in designated special economic zones, offering tax and other investment incentives. However, owing to structural weaknesses and a difficult business environment, we expect Pakistan to enjoy limited success in attracting Chinese manufacturing, as it competes with more attractive venues such as Vietnam.