Source: Daily Messenger
Publisher: Daily Messenger
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Daily Messenger 
Publication Date: Mar 06, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Chinese companies to invest $2bn in Pakistan's housing sector

Snippet: Prime Minister Imran Khan on Wednesday reiterated his government's resolve for providing conducive and business friendly environment to investors in the country. The premier said this while talking to Chief Executives of two Chinese companies including President of Global Sales XCMG Dr. Hanson Liu and Chairman HSS Group Syed Saman Hashmi, who called on him at his office in the federal capital. During the meeting, PM Khan highlighted the steps being taken by his government to provide maximum facilities to the investors, reducing cost and improving ease of doing business in Pakistan. On the occasion, Chief Executives of both Chinese companies expressed commitment of two billion dollars investment in Pakistan in Housing and manufacturing sectors.

Body: 
Commenting on the construction of five million houses, the PM said it is a flagship program of the government which will open up new opportunities for the allied industries and youth of the country. Prime Minister Imran Khan welcomed the investment and commitment of the Chinese company for investing in Pakistan. XCMG is Chinese number one leading total solution provider for global construction industry equipment and machinery. It is also intended to set up heavy equipment manufacturing plants in Pakistan. Earlier on January 18, US-based food and agriculture company Cargill had also decided to invest $200mn in Pakistan in agriculture, dairy farming, and cooking oil sectors. Marcel Smits, Chairman of the Asia Pacific and Head of Corporate Strategy at Cargill called on Prime Minister Imran Khan, and discussed various investment avenues in the country. Prime Minister Imran Khan welcomed the company's decision to invest in the country and assured Smits of his government's full support.