Source: Pakistan Observer
Publisher: Pakistan Observer
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Observer 
Publication Date: Feb 19, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,pakis,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Chinese Spring Festival celebrated at NUML

Snippet: The Confucius Institute at National University of Modern Languages (NUML) Tuesday organized a colorful function to celebrate Chinese Happy Spring Festival. Ambassador of Peoples Republic of China to Pakistan, Mr Yao Jing was the chief guest of the ceremony while Rector NUML Major General (retd) Zia Uddin Najam, Director General NUML Brig Muhammad Ibrahim, Chinese Cultural Counsellor, Registrar, Directors, Deans, HoDs, and students from the various educational institutions attended the ceremony.

Speaking at the inaugural session, Chinese Ambassador Yao Jing said that NUML was playing pivotal role to promote China-Pak relations.

Body: 
Pakistan, today was a more open and a hub of regional cooperation and Pakistan policy was aimed at regional connectivity, he added.

He said that CPEC next focus would be on social sector and education would be given priority.

He alongwith Rector and DG NUML inaugurated NUML new program which was BS Area studies China and said that Chinese embassy will support Area Studies program.

He said that two governments were moving forward to cooperate in education sector and NUML was the first one.

This cooperation, he said, will move fast from government to government. He thanked Rector NUML for introducing this new program in the university.

Earlier, Rector NUML Major General Zia ud din Najam in his welcome address said that China stood with Pakistan in time of test and the friendship and brotherhood of both countries was just exemplary. He said that initiating BS Area studies Chinese will help the students to know about China and its diversity. He was of the view that youth of both the countries will bring this friendship to new level. At the end kids and young students from various educational institution showed their performances.