Source: Business Recorder
Publisher: Emmay Zed Publications (Private) Ltd
Byline: RECORDER REPORT 
Copyright: © 2019 Business Recorder. All Rights Reserved. 
Publication Date: May 30, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,pakis,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: IMSciences to facilitate Chinese companies in CPEC projects

Snippet: The Institute of Management Sciences - IMSciences in collaboration with Feiyun Culture Co, Ltd held a Listing Ceremony of Feiyun Culture & IMSciences Industry Talent Training Base under the CPEC Industry-Government-Academia Consortium. Representatives from a range of universities and mega companies of China, including China Gezhouba Group Company Limited, China Road and Bridge Corporation Pakistan Co., Ltd., China Energy Engineering Group Guang Dong Electric Power Design Institute Co, Ltd, Beijing Jiaotong University and Chang'an University attended the ceremony, said in a press statement issued here on Thursday.

Body: 
CEOs Bahadur Shah and Saeed Ahmad of Pakhtunkhwa Energy Development Organization (PEDO) and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Economic Zones Development and Management Company (KPEZDMC) respectively, also attended the ceremony. Abdul Karim Khan, Special Assistant to Chief Minister of KP for Industry and Commerce, was the Chief Guest. Director IMSciences, Dr Muhammad Mohsin Khan officially welcomed all the guests and thanked them for sparing time for the ceremony. Dr Usman Ghani, Joint Director IMSciences, gave a brief introduction of IMSciences and gave a briefing on the background of the training base.

The house was then opened for any suggestions and recommendations for improving the training programmes that will be initiated in IMSciences for the CPEC related human resource. The purpose of the talent training base is to provide necessary trainings to the human resource that would be employed to work on CPEC related projects. Both, Bahadur Shah and Saeed Ahmad stressed on the need for greater cooperation between the two countries in order to synergize on the already progressive partnership. Saeed praised IMSciences for its important contribution in the overall CPEC project in terms of providing trainings.

Lv Xiufeng from China Gezhouba Company stated the desire for a continuous working relation with IMSciences and the government. Zhu Xiaoning from Beijing Jiatong University talked briefly about the university to familiarize the audience about its contributions in up-gradation of the Chinese railway and developing relations with international universities. After the ceremony, mementos in the form of shields were distributed among all the representatives of Chinese universities & companies, CEOs of PEDO and KPEZDMC and the Chief Guest, Abdul Karim Khan.