Source: National Herald Tribune
Publisher: National Herald Tribune
Byline: WAQAS UR REHMAN 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. National Herald Tribune. 
Publication Date: Jan 30, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Sustainable Development of Balochistan

Snippet: THE LARGEST geographic province of Balochistan is of highly strategic importance. It is rich in mineral and natural resources, and has connectivity to the outside world via the Gwadar Port. The province is experiencing diversifies economic activities under the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) project; however the economy of a certain country or a region cannot be sustained only by the availability of infrastructure and investment. For any sustained development, the State's focus should be on social justice, inclusiveness, and protection of environment and natural resources. In order to achieve these objectives, the Federal and Provincial governments need to focus on the sustained educational policy followed by political stability and human development.

Body: 
 For this purpose, a frequent dialogue between the government officials and the public is necessary, which will enable them to fulfill their responsibilities towards sustainable development, and ensure accountability along with infusing trust in the society. Pakistan should pursue a comprehensive implementation framework to achieve the long lasting development goals.

In the first place, the government should identify the weaknesses which would be resolved at the first place. The Provincial government should be given more autonomy. The concept of localization should be strengthened through which necessary requirements of every district would be assessed. Moreover, the authorities should prioritize the educational policy revolving around the quality services to the general public. The educational growth is one of the major routes to develop human capital, which itself will help in ending unemployment, thus ending poverty and hunger in the society. If there will be no poverty, there will be no hunger. Similarly, there is dire need for imparting technical skills within the local populace so that they may start working independently. Apart from other social issues, the Baloch population has been facing extreme shortage of water, which needs to be resolved on the urgent basis. Water directly complements the farming and livestock.

The government must improve the health services being provided to the citizens. A healthy society positively impacts the economic growth. The 'Health Department' must provide robust health facilities in all the districts as par with that of Quetta. Another major challenge for Balochistan is the governance issue. The government should strive to curb the menace of corruption in the office-bearers, and ensure provision of quality services to the public. It is equally important to develop an aesthetic sense in the Baloch society through which they can contribute positively towards the development process. In order to address the above-mentioned challenges, it is mandatory for the government to keep proper record of data in every domain, for which the 'Bureau of Statistics' and 'Finance Department' can be utilized efficiently. Meanwhile, the government officials must focus on capacity-building to enhance their working. Moreover, it is the duty of the Provincial government to devolve the executive powers to the lowest level by promulgating 'Local Governance System' which will focus on addressing the socio-economic difficulties at the village and town levels.

The local Balochs must be taken into confidence in every project. They must have a say in the decision-making bodies. They should be given priority in the jobs. Meanwhile. the State-institutions should be strengthened along with ensuring their mutual coordination. It is fortunate to know that the CPEC project under the ambit of the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) will transform the socio-economic conditions of the local Balochs. Under the CPEC project, many roads and highways are being built which will enhance the regional connectivity. Many energy projects including solar power are being installed which will cater for their energy requirements.

Hundreds of the Baloch students are being sent to the Chinese universities for acquiring higher education. They are all being provided with fullyfunded scholarships. Moreover, the Higher Education Commission (HEC) in Pakistan has been offering 'Indigenous Scholarships' to the Baloch students. The establishment of the industrial units will employ the local skilled Balochs which will enable them to earn their bread and butter. Most importantly, the Gwadar Port will serve as a lynchpin for the regional economic activity. Conclusively, the government should follow a holistic policy to achieve the sustainable development in the province. The Federal government must ensure provision of due share to Balochistan. It is prudent to focus on long term goals; rather than working on short term programs. Balochistan has the potential to transform the country into an economic giant if managed in a proper way.