Source: The Balochistan Times
Publisher: Asianet-Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 The Balochistan Times 
Publication Date: Jan 23, 2019

Region Codes: ,kash,jammu,pakis,asiaz,bric,devgcoz,dvpcoz,india,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: President AJK informed about NAVTTC plans

Snippet: President Azad Jammu and Kashmir, Sardar Masood Khan has stated that it is pertinent to impart vocational and technical education along with traditional education to address unemployment.

He added that developing a skilled human resource will enable new avenues of employment and development to open up in AJK.

Body: 
The President made these remarks while meeting Mr. Muqeem Islam, Director General National Vocational and Technical Training Commission (NAVTTC), who called on the President here at Jammu and Kashmir House.

Mr. Muqeem Islam informed the President that NAVTTC plans to further enhance the performance of vocational training institutes all over Pakistan in order to reduce unemployment in the country. In this regard, youth will be equipped with technical skills, make them eligible to earn money.

Technical centres, he said, would also be established in Madrassas so that the students could be equipped with technical skills besides religious education. He said that NAVTTC will also send trainers for master training programmes to China, who will in the future help train other vocational trainers all over Pakistan.

Briefing the President on the situation of technical education in AJK, the DG said that currently, 3246 students form AJK have been trained by NAVTTC.

He said that NAVTTC under its policy would extend all technical and professional help to establish new technical colleges in Azad Kashmir and also to enhance the technical capacity of existing colleges.

President Masood Khan said that with five public sector universities, three medical colleges, two cadet colleges and scores of postgraduate colleges, AJK also enjoys an 85% literacy score. He said that unemployment can be readily addressed by providing students with essential and practical technical education.

He added that with the upcoming projects under the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor the demand for technically skilled human resource will rise exponentially providing the youth with ample opportunities for employment.

The President said that technically advanced nations like Germany, Japan, China, Brazil and others stress upon technical education and make it a part of their curricula. He said that the AJK Government will avail this opportunity and with the help of NAVTTC and the Federal Government, Azad Kashmir will accelerate the promotion of technical education.

He stressed upon the immediate need to impart technical education in the fields of tourism, hospitality, hotel management construction and other similar disciplines.