Source: Business Recorder
Publisher: Emmay Zed Publications (Private) Ltd
Byline: RECORDER REPORT 
Copyright: © 2019 Business Recorder. All Rights Reserved. 
Publication Date: May 16, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,pakis,laho,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Chinese visas to be issued from Lahore: envoy

Snippet: Chinese Ambassador Yao Jing has announced to open a branch in Lahore for the issuance of Chinese visa and he said that this will facilitate the Pakistani citizens and it will be functional from next month. He expressed these views during his meeting with Punjab Chief Minister Sardar Usman Buzdar here on Thursday.

Chinese Consul General Long Dingbin, Chinese officials, Chairman PBIT, Chairman P&D, ACS (Home), Secretary Industries and others were also present on the occasion.

Body: 
On the occasion, they discussed various matters of mutual interest, including the promotion of Pakistan-China relations, CPEC related projects and expansion of bilateral cooperation in different sectors. Both agreed to expand partnership for investment in special economic zones, agriculture, technical and vocational training, tourism, social sector and public-private partnership.

Talking on the occasion, the Chief Minister said that China is a trustworthy friend of Pakistan and added that Chinese cooperation is appreciable for making a new Pakistan. "Pakistan-China economic relations are touching new heights. CPEC related projects are very important in the journey of durable development in the country," he added.

He said that the Punjab government is setting up new economic zones where Chinese investors will be given facilities and incentives. He said that Pakistan-China economic relations will be boosted through public-private partnership, as his government is going to set up the Public-Private Partnership Authority.

"The durable development of the social sector is an important priority of the incumbent government and Chinese cooperation is appreciable in this regard. The government is interested in utilizing the latest Chinese technology in agriculture, tourism and technical and vocational training sectors. We are establishing technical universities in DG Khan and Mandi Bahauddin," he added.

He said that a separate park is being set up in southern Punjab for the promotion of agro-based industries.

"The Chinese investors should take benefit of investment opportunities in special economic zones. Chinese development is a role model for Pakistan and Chinese experiences will be fully benefitted by the government to make a new Pakistan. The PTI government is committed for the elimination of corruption and far-reaching steps are being taken to bring back the looted money of the people," he added.

The Chinese ambassador said that Punjab is moving towards the journey of development under the leadership of Chief Minister and added that investment opportunities in special economic zones will be benefited.