Source: The Balochistan Times
Publisher: Asianet-Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 The Balochistan Times 
Publication Date: Jan 28, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,pakis,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Confucius Centre starts three month Chinese language course at S U

Snippet: The Confucius Institute started three month long Chinese language course at Area Study Centre Fareast and Southeast Asia of University of Sindh from Monday.

The Vice Chancellor Prof. Dr. Fateh Mohammad Burfat who inaugurated the course at a ceremony held at ASEAN Conference Hall of Area Study Centre said learning a foreign language, any language, will always be a valuable investment of time and effort.

Body: 
He said language-learning automatically stimulates the mind, helps you gain multi-tasking skills, and can even boost your intelligence. Besides having intellectual benefits, he said learning a new language can also be a gateway into a new culture, and allow for a better understanding of peoples and their customs. This has become truer of Chinese language in Pakistan after CPEC has assumed vital importance in the South Asian region, he added.

In the past few years mainly after the announcement of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) in 2015, the Vice Chancellor said that there has been an unprecedented surge in the number of students wanting to learn Chinese.

He said that youth should especially learn Chinese language so that entrepreneurial culture could be cultivated in Pakistan. The learning of Chinese language will bring youth better employment opportunities and Chinese scholarship incentives, he said.

The Director Area Study Board Prof. Dr. Ghulam Akbar Mahesar highlighted the aims and objectives of the course and also briefed those present on the accomplishments of the Area Study Center that included publication of research journals and future engagement as regarded Chinese language and culture initiatives.

The Chinese language course coordinator of the Area Study Center Dr. Mukesh Kumar spoke on the importance of learning Mandarin in the given context.

Those present on the occasion included Director Pakistan Study Center Prof. Dr. Shuja Ahmed Mahesar, President SUTA Prof. Dr. Nek Mohammad Shaikh and Member Syndicate University of Sindh Jamshed Baloch.