Source: The Balochistan Times
Publisher: Asianet-Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 The Balochistan Times 
Publication Date: Apr 25, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,easiaz,pakis,beijin,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: PM Imran Khan to attend Beijing Horticultural Exhibition inaugural ceremony on Sunday

Snippet: Prime Minister Imran Khan, who is scheduled to visit China to participate in

the second Belt and Road Forum (BRF) from April 25-27, will attend inaugural ceremony of Beijing International Horticultural Exhibition, on Sunday.

Body: 
Nearly 900 dignitaries, including foreign leaders and special envoys from

11 countries, international exhibitors, horticulture experts and journalists

from home and abroad, will attend the ceremony.

Chinese President Xi Jinping will deliver a speech at the opening ceremony.

He will also tour the China Pavilion with leaders from other countries, according

to Gao Yan, executive director of the expo's executive committee and also chairwoman of the China Council for the Promotion of International Trade.

The expo park, covering 503 hectares, is located at the foot of the Great

Wall of China in the capital's Yanqing district. The expo will display the latest

achievements in floriculture and fruit and vegetable production worldwide.

The 162-day event will open on Monday and is expected to see some 16

million visitors, including the general public.

Over 110 countries and international organizations and 120 nongovernmental organizations and provincial or local exhibitors have confirmed their attendance.

As an A1-level expo, the highest rank, the Beijing 2019 expo plans a wide range

of activities and up to 15 events per day.

The construction and interiors of the main pavilions at the expo park have been completed, said Wang Hong, deputy mayor of Beijing. Shrubs and flowers have

been planted outside Guirui Theater and Yongning Pavilion, two iconic spots

being used for the expo.

Beijing has arranged for additional public transportation services, and 11

temporary parking lots have been built to accommodate over 20,000 cars.

An eco-tourism belt is to be built along the Great Wall, reaching as far as Zhangjiakou, Hebei province, the co-host of the Beijing 2022 Winter

Olympics.

Wang said that after the exhibition, the park is scheduled to become a

world-class cultural area to display the latest regional achievements in

ecological development and floriculture technologies.

Jiang Zehui, chairwoman of the China Flower Association, said the expo

will feature international competitions in flower arranging.

This is the second time China has hosted an A1-level horticulture expo,

following the event hosted in 1999 by Kunming, Yunnan province.