Source: Pakistan Observer
Publisher: Pakistan Observer
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Observer 
Publication Date: Jun 15, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Pakistan as investment destination

Snippet: PRIME Minister Imran Khan on Friday, while addressing a meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO)

summit, said that Pakistan is an attractive investment destination and a large market endowed with a rich array of resources. Addressing the 19th Meeting of the Council of the Heads of State of SCO, the Premier said the predominantly young population of Pakistan is imbued with immense energy and creativity.

Body: 
There can be no two opinions that Pakistan can become an attractive investment destination because of its ideal location and resource base. It is located at the cross-roads of important regions and as pointed out by the Prime Minister the country has a vast pool of skilled human resource, a large agrarian base, tremendous tourism potential, diverse mineral wealth and a developed IT infrastructure. Massive Chinese investment under China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) is also a testimony of the real potential of the country in attracting foreign investment and hopefully all-round development of Gwadar Port would help turn it into a regional hub for connectivity and trade. Security environment and law and order issues were among serious obstacles to investment but the situation has improved significantly as a result of the war against terror and now normal activities of life are witnessed in previously insecure areas and regions. However, despite all this, there are hardly any indications that the country is or could attract significant investment (except, of course, from China) mainly because of its poor economy, lack of consistency in policies and absence of ease of doing business. The image problem is also to be blamed for scaring investors and even some governmental leaders have, knowingly or unknowingly, been responsible for negative projection of Pakistan. It was because of this state of affairs that investors from different countries including those from Pakistan were seen moving towards Bangladesh to benefit from the cheap input cost options available there. We would, therefore, remind the worthy Prime Minister that mere geography would not make Pakistan an attractive investment destination and the Government will have to take concrete steps to move towards this cherished objective.