Source: Business Recorder
Publisher: Emmay Zed Publications (Private) Ltd
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 Business Recorder. All Rights Reserved. 
Publication Date: Apr 05, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: HEC-Huawei ICT Skill Competition: President for accelerating pace to adopt new technologies

Snippet: President Dr Arif Alvi has emphasised the need to accelerate efforts to adopt new technologies in every field of life. He was addressing the closing ceremony of HEC-Huawei ICT Skill Competition 2018-19 held here at the Higher Education Commission (HEC) Secretariat on Friday. The ceremony marked the announcement of winners who will compete in the Global Final to be held in China next month, says a press release issued here.

Congratulating the HEC and Huawei for successfully conducting this ICT competition for students, he said there was a huge potential of exports and employment generation in Pakistan's IT and Telecom industry, adding that that actually held the key for any country's development. "Such competitions will prepare our younger generation to effectively contribute for country's socio-economic development."

Body: 
Huawei ICT Competition Pakistan 2018-19 was launched in September last year. Roadshow and workshops were held in 53 universities and academic institutions across Pakistan. More than 5,000 students attended the examination conducted on Huawei's learning platform. Top 300 students were invited to attend the second round, of which 171 students passed the HCNA Certification.

The top 100 students took part in the National Final and the most competitive top six students were selected for the Middle East International Final in China. In May 2019, the top three students including Zohaib Anwar, Jawaria Abbas and Asim Fareed will participate in the Huawei ICT Competition Global Final in China with other regional winners from all over the globe.

Speaking to the audience, the President stressed on the need to realise the swiftly increasing scope of information age, and implementation of right strategies to bring in relevant technologies in different fields.

He gave various examples of education, health and agriculture sectors, and underscored the fact that a proactive approach is required to identify and incorporate IT solutions in every single field.

Dr Alvi also highlighted the role of the state to ensure that younger generation was provided with every opportunity to unleash their talent and play an active part in that age of rapid transition and application of technologies.

He narrated how he had been endeavouring to bring in IT solutions for his political activities not only in his constituency but also bring reforms in the election processes at party as well as national levels.

He talked about the gaps in university education and demand of different markets.-PR