Source: The News International
Publisher: The News International, Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019 The News International 
Publication Date: Dec 10, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,laho,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Orange Train rolls out for test run

Snippet: The Orange Line Metro Train is the first transport project to be completed under the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), said Provincial Transport Minister Jahanzeb Khan Khitchi while addressing an infrastructure completion ceremony of the project on Tuesday.

According to him, the Metro Train symbolises Pak-China friendship and is a magnificent gift for Lahorites. Orange Line Metro Train is not a project of any political personality or party but a project for the people, he added. This project is a joint venture of the Punjab government and China, which is being completed to facilitate the citizens and is completely environment-friendly transport system according to clean and green vision of Prime Minister Imran Khan, he added.

Body: 
Jahanzeb Khitchi by unveiling the inaugural plaque at Ali Town formally opened the Lahore Orange Line Metro Train Project. He said Orange Train Project also holds the distinction of first electric transport of Pakistan. Orange line project is the first electric vehicle for Pakistan public sector besides Orange Train also holds the distinction of first computer-based control train of public sector whose speed, break and other functions will be computer operated, he shared on the occasion. Jahanzeb Khitchi said that approximately 2.5 lakh passengers would travel in Orange Train on daily basis while saving amounting to Rs15 billion approximately is also expected under the head of passenger time travel and vehicle operating.

The PTI government in order to alleviate people's problems has considered its duty to complete this project and after making day and night efforts the train has run on its full route through electricity and its trial run has been successfully completed. It has happened first time in the country's history that the government instead of halting project of previous government has completed it fully which is a living example of political tolerance, he maintained. Physical infrastructure of this project has been completed and now testing process of break, alignment, signal and other technical tests will be conducted after which train will be fully operational for the public.

The minister said that Chinese engineers, transport department, mass transit authority and LDA officials were working on this project and for completion of its infrastructure deserved commendation. He said that this is government to government project which has been completed with due collaboration of Pakistani and Chinese institutions. This project will not only ease volume of traffic on Multan Road but will also subsequently reduce environmental pollution in this area, he maintained.

Orange line train project will be opened for public as soon as possible and the construction work of roads around orange line track will also be completed at the earliest.

He said that besides solving traffic problems on priority basis, foolproof plan would also be formulated for traffic management.

Information and Culture Minister Fayyaz-ul-Hassan Chohan, Energy Minister Dr Akhtar Malik, Food Minister Samiullah Ch, Adviser to CM Dr Salman Shah, Members of Assembly, Secretary Transport Asad-ur-Rehman Gillani, Managing Director Orange Line Metro Train Project Sibtain Fazal Haleem, Executive Deputy General Manager of Chinese NORINCO Company Wang Yunlin and other concerned officers were also present on this occasion.