Source: Pakistan Today
Publisher: Nawa Media (Pvt.) Limited
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Nawa Media (PVT.) Limited. 
Publication Date: Feb 01, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: KP CM directs early completion of Rashakai Economic Zone

Snippet: Asianet Pakistan Private Limited

PESHAWAR:Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP) Chief Minister Mahmood Khan Saturday said that establishment of Rashakai Special Economic Zone will be made possible on a priority basis. He directed legal aspects should be examined for the early completion of RashakaiEconomic Zone, so as to present it in the next cabinet meeting for a further decision.

Body: 
Mahmood Khan said that provision of all facilities to the foreign investors, especially Chinese businessmen, would be provided on a priority basis. He directed that the concerned departments should hold a meeting with the Finance Minister for future strategy in this regard for further concrete decisions in the next cabinet meeting.

He said this while presiding over a meeting to discuss the Rashakai Special Economic Zone at the Chief Minister Secretariat Peshawar. Advisor to CM on Industries and Commerce Abdul Karim Torghar, SSU Head Sahibzada Saeed, chief executive of KP EZDMC, administrative secretaries concerned and others attended the meeting.

The CM said that all possible support and facilities would be provided to Chinese investors for economic activities in the Province. He said that with the completion Rashakai Special Economic Zone the economy will boost and also provide jobs in the province.

He directed that the concerned departments should coordinate with each other and play their positive role for the early completion of RashakaiSpecial Economic Zone. The chief minister directed that keeping all legal and codal aspects of the project in mind a complete strategy should be presented to him regarding the early completion of RSEZ and other matters with CRBC.

He said that the strategy would be presented in the next cabinet meeting for concrete decisions. The CM said that the provincial government will leave no stone unturned for the economic stability of the province.

Establishment of industrial zones in other districts of the province is also the priority of provincial government. Mahmood Khan said that the provincial government is trying to establish a network of industrial zones in the province for the economic stability and self-reliance of the province so that the local communities could get jobs and other business facilities.