Source: Associated Press Newswires
Publisher: The Associated Press
Byline: 
Copyright: (c) 2019.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 
Publication Date: Sep 30, 2019

Region Codes: ,qatar,fra,doha,lyon,pakis,spain,asiaz,auver,devgcoz,dvpcoz,eecz,eurz,gulfstz,indsubz,meastz,medz,sasiaz,wasiaz,weurz,

Title: BC-AP--AP Sports Digest, AP

Snippet: WORLD SPORTS AT 2300 GMT:

TOP STORY:

Body: 
ATH--WORLDS

DOHA, Qatar _ There was no way Karsten Warholm of Norway would dare be disappointed. He cleared all 10 hurdles, beat all seven guys, won his second straight gold medal at world championships and remained undefeated in 2019 — a perfect 9 for 9. That world record, however, remains unbroken, just as it has after every 400-meter hurdle race run since 1992, four years before Warholm was born. By Eddie Pells. SENT: 800 words, photos.

ATH--WORLDS-EMPTY-SEATS

DOHA, Qatar _ As Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce completed her victory lap after once again being crowned as the fastest woman on the planet, she held her 2-year-old son and waved to the crowd. Well, crowd is an exaggeration. There appeared to be only dozens of fans left just minutes after the women's 100-meter final, one of the marquee events of the world track championships in Doha, Qatar. Most of them were Jamaican supporters, team officials or Fraser-Pryce family members. By Rob Harris. SENT: 600 words, photos.

ATH--WORLDS-GEBRSELASSIE

ADDIS ABABA, Ethiopia _ Distance-running great Haile Gebrselassie says it was a mistake to hold the track and field world championships in Qatar and that marathon runners could have died from the heat. The women's marathon Saturday started at midnight to dodge the worst of the heat in Qatar but was still held in humidity that made it feel like 105 degrees (40 Celsius). By Elias Meseret. SENT: 400 words, photos.

SOCCER:

SOC--MAN UNITED-ARSENAL

MANCHESTER, England _ A video review tinged with controversy plunged Manchester United to its worst seven-game start to a league season in 30 years. The assistant referee's flag was already raised for offside when Arsenal striker Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang chipped a deft finish past United goalkeeper David De Gea in the 58th minute of a frenetic and error-strewn Premier League game between the two old rivals on Monday. SENT: 600 words, photos.

SOC--ITALIAN ROUNDUP

PARMA, Italy _ Parma recovered from a missed penalty and a first-half deficit to beat 10-man Torino 3-2 in Serie A on Monday. Dejan Kulusevski put Parma ahead inside just 90 seconds when he bundled in Gervinho's cutback. It was a first Serie A goal for the Swedish teenager, who is on loan from Atalanta. SENT: 250 words, photos.

SOC--FIFA-SALA CLAIM

ZURICH _ Cardiff was ordered by FIFA on Monday to pay 6 million euros ($6.5 million) to Nantes as a first installment of the transfer fee for Emiliano Sala, the Argentine striker who died in an airplane crash before playing for the Welsh club. Sala was killed when a single-engine aircraft carrying him and pilot David Ibbotson from Nantes to Cardiff to complete the transfer crashed near the Channel Island of Guernsey on Jan. 21. SENT: 400 words, photos.

SOC--WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

NYON, Switzerland _ Four-time defending champion Lyon has been drawn to play Fortuna Hjørring in the round of 16 of the Women's Champions League. Before Lyon became one of the most dominant teams in international club soccer, Fortuna Hjørring was the beaten finalist in the 2003 edition of UEFA's continental championship. By Graham Dunbar. SENT: 300 words, photos.

GOLF:

GLF--EUROPEAN TOUR-COURSE CRITICISM

LONDON _ Two of the biggest names in golf have taken a swing at the course set-ups on the European Tour, saying they need to be tougher to test the best players. Rory McIlroy was the first to vent his frustration, saying after the final round of the Alfred Dunhill Links Championship on Sunday that "there are no penalties for bad shots" and "I don't feel good golf is rewarded as well as it could be." SENT: 400 words, photos.

RUGBY:

RGU--RWC-SCOTLAND-SAMOA

KOBE, Japan _ Scotland got two penalty tries and Samoa winger Ed Fidow got a red card for giving away both of them in a pressure-relieving 34-0 win for the Scots at the Rugby World Cup on Monday. By Gerald Imray. SENT: 700 words, photos.

TENNIS:

TEN--CHINA OPEN

BEIJING _ Former top-ranked players Venus Williams and Simona Halep both lost in the second round of the China Open on Monday. Williams lost 3-6, 6-3, 7-5 to ninth-seeded Belinda Bencic of Switzerland, who saved two match points in the final set to outlast the seven-time Grand Slam champion despite making 40 unforced errors in the match. She will next face the winner of seventh-seeded Petra Kvitova and Kristina Mladenovic in the round of 16. SENT: 400 words.

CRICKET:

CRI--PAKISTAN-SRI LANKA

KARACHI, Pakistan _ Pakistan marked the return of ODI cricket in Karachi after 10 years with a 67-run victory over Sri Lanka in the second one-day international on Monday. Babar Azam formed the backbone of Pakistan's strong total of 305-7 as he smashed 115 off 105 balls. Babar also became the fastest Pakistani batsman to complete 1,000 ODI runs in a calendar year in 19 matches. By Rizwan Ali. SENT: 500 words, photos.

YOUR QUERIES: Questions and story requests are welcome. Contact your local AP bureau or the AP International Sports Desk in London by telephone at +44 207 427 4224 or email lonsports@ap.org.