Source: Daily Messenger
Publisher: Daily Messenger
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Daily Messenger 
Publication Date: Oct 08, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Time to invest in Pakistan, PM Khan tells China

Snippet: Prime Minister Imran Khan, who is in China on a two-day official visit, on Tuesday touted newly-formed China-Pakistan Economic Authority (CPEC), saying as per the new policy his office [Prime Minister's Office] will deal with the foreign investments and the corridor. Speaking at the China Council for Promotion of International Trade, the prime minister touted the pro-business policies of the ruling Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) and said he had taken a conscious decision to make it easier for investors to come to Pakistan after his party assumed power after 2018 general election. 'We will want them to make profits in Pakistan,' he said that the PM's Office will be dealing with all the major investments, including the CPEC. 'We have now decided that there will be one authority which will resolve all the problems of CPEC, and that authority will be the Prime Minister's Office, so that my office can make it easier for people investing in Pakistan,' he said.

Body: 
The PM recounted various steps that Pakistan had taken including the completion of phase one of the Gwadar Free Zone. He said that there were various reasons for people to invest in Pakistan including its strategic location, its young population and the economic revival taking place in the country particularly the strides made in the ease of doing business as well as the industrial clusters through special economic zones (SEZs). Prime Minister Imran named the sectors Pakistan wanted Chinese investment in: textile, manufacturing, IT and financial services, physical and technological logistics, tourism and hospitality, food processing and agriculture, housing as well as in oil and gas. PM Imran Khan also expressed his desire for following Chinese President Xi Jinping's model of countering corruption and send 500 corrupt people to jail, saying processing of corruption cases in Pakistan was 'very cumbersome'.

Speaking at the China Council for Promotion of International Trade, the prime minister said one thing he had learned from China was how the country's leadership tackled corruption. 'One of President Xi Jinping's biggest crusades was against corruption,' he said, adding that he had heard that some 400 'ministerial-level people' had been convicted over corrupt practices and put behind jail in the last five years in China. Referring to Xi's anticorruption drive in 2012, PM Imran said: 'I wish I could follow President Xi's example and put 500 corrupt people in Pakistan in jail.' Besides corruption, the PM also praised Chinese that had lifted over 700 million people out of poverty in 30 years, calling it 'unprecedented'. Later, the PM arrived at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing where his Chinese counterpart Li Keqiang received him. The prime minister also stressed the importance of the CPEC project in a meeting with PM Li Keqiang and said the project was pivotal for Pakistan's 'economic development and regional prosperity'.