Source: Pakistan Business News
Publisher: Pakistan Publishing Institute
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Asianet-Pakistan 
Publication Date: Feb 17, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,laho,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: PCJCCI initiated a policy for unemployed manpower - Press Release issued by Pakistan China Joint Chamber of Commerce & Industry

Snippet: February 18, 2019 (PPI-OT)

Following is the text of press release issued by Pakistan China Joint Chamber of Commerce & Industry (PCJCCI)

Body: 
Quote

President Pakistan China Joint Chamber of Commerce and Industry (PCJCCI) Shah Faisal Afridi has urged the government of Pakistan to redesign its technical training programs in line with the Chinese labor intensive industries to be relocated from China to Pakistan. Afridi, while exchanging his views at a meeting with Mr. Liu Chengqiang, General Manager Shandong Shifeng Group Co, Ltd said that Pakistan could make its unemployed manpower effective in the current scenario by providing technical training in CPEC related work ambits. He was accompanied by Mr. Ahmed Hasnain, SVP of PCJCCI on this occasion. He observed that China was witnessing economic renewal at massive scale by following the European model of relocating a part of its manufacturing sector to the economically viable places bearing skilled labor at low wages.

Shah Faisal Afridi was confident that Pakistan could attract Chinese manufacturing sector by developing trained workforce for industries. He termed this phenomenon as a great industrial transfer, which could produce plenty of opportunities for Pakistan.

Mr. Shah Faisal Afridi proposed that China should assist Pakistan in empowering its labor force in line with its industrial requirements by formulating collaborative Research institutes and capacity building organizations that would impart vocational training to Pakistani labor as per Chinese work ethics including language and communication. China can help to establish such training institutes in Pakistan that would keep themselves in touch with the ongoing Chinese industrial trends, he said adding that the proposed institutes would be empowered enough to have machines, tools and technology being used by textile, pharmaceuticals and surgical industries of China to ensure a well-trained and competent labor force for future consumption.

Afridi said, he will try to convince the present government to take immediate steps for modifying the existing vocational institutes to generate more work force for industrial joint ventures of China and Pakistan.

Speaking on this occasion, Mr. Ahmed Hasnain, Senior Vice President PCJCCI explicated that Pakistan owned the 9th largest labor force in the world. According to the Labour Force Survey 2017-2018, he said, 4.40 million people out of 63.890 million labor force, were unemployed and rest were employed to jobs that do not meet their area of expertise.

He opined that export of quality manpower was important for the growth of remittances. Therefore, in the existing population structure of Pakistan, over 60 percent manpower could be developed as a productive asset of the country through skill development programs focused on China-Pakistan industrial collaborations, he said.

Earlier, Mr. Liu Chengqiang, General Manager Shandong Shifeng Group Co, Ltd informed that he had visited Pakistan to examine the environment for transfer of Industries in Pakistan. He said that had received positive indicators in this regard.

For more information, contact:Media Manager,Pakistan China Joint Chamber of Commerce & Industry (PCJCCI)Mega Tower, 309 - 6th Floor,Main Boulevard, Gulberg II,Lahore, Punjab - PakistanTel: +92-42-35777460-02, +92-42-37032203, +92-42-35874353Fax: +92-42-35777524Cell: +92-324-4925611Email: info@pcjcci.orgWebsite: www.pcjcci.org

Unquote