Source: Pakistan Press International Information Services
Publisher: Pakistan Press International Information Services
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Press International Information Services 
Publication Date: Jul 02, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Chinese delegation of China Railways Construction Cooperation calls on Advisor to Prime Minister Razzaq Dawood - Press Note issued by Press Information Department

Snippet: July 03, 2019 (PPI-OT)

Following is the text of press note issued by Press Information Department (PID)

Body: 
Quote

A Chinese delegation of China Railways Construction Cooperation (CRCCI) called on Mr. Razzaq Dawood, Advisor to PM on Commerce, Textile, Industries and Production, and Investment. CRCCI is one of the largest integrated developer and contractor which has strategic partnership with top-notch IT companies. The meeting aimed to explore the investment opportunities in IT sector in Pakistan.

The Advisor to PM apprised the delegation regarding the investment friendly policies of Pakistan and urged the delegation to exploit the untapped potential of IT sector by bringing investment in Pakistan. He further underscored the special incentives provided to the investors in Special Economic Zones (SEZs). The Managing Director CRCCI appreciated Pakistan's business friendly policies and informed the participants that CRCCI intends to undertake 'Islamabad IT Special Economic Zone Project' as a Public Private Partnership between Pakistan Software Export Board (PSEB) and CRCCI.

He has underlined that CRCCI is committed to invest in development of SEZ without financially burdening Pakistan's government. The project aims to develop an IT Special Economic Zone in Islamabad with state of the art infrastructure, superior connectivity and smart facilities and showed interest in investment in IT sector. The proposed project will bring immense benefits to Pakistan by attracting top IT companies for investment in Pakistan.

The project will provide safe, convenient and affordable office spaces to nurture home grown IT business and will generate thousands of new jobs for Pakistani IT talent while increasing the competiveness of Pakistan's IT product in global market, the CRCCI representative highlighted. Advisor to PM appreciated the investment proposal of the CRCCI and ensured all kind of cooperation to push the project forward. Moreover he stressed that the CRCCI should collaborate with local Pakistani IT firms and companies to transfer the technological know-how and create jobs for local IT human resource.

For more information, contact:Principal Information Officer,Press Information Department (PID)Tel: +92-51-9252323, +92-51-9252324Fax: +92-51-9252325, +92-51-9252326Email: piopid@gmail.comWebsite: www.pid.gov.pk

Unquote