Source: Pakistan Press International Information Services
Publisher: Pakistan Press International Information Services
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Press International Information Services 
Publication Date: Jun 20, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Industrial and Regional Cooperation to be promoted under CPEC framework free excess granted on export of 313 items FMD free zone agreement signed with China: Khusro Bakhtyar - Press Note issued by Press Information Department

Snippet: June 21, 2019 (PPI-OT)

Following is the text of press note issued by Press Information Department (PID)

Body: 
Quote

Federal Minister for Planning, Development and Reform Makhdum Khusro Bakhtyar has said that China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) project is now entering into the second phase wherein bilateral cooperation in agriculture and industrial sectors will be enhanced. He stated that cooperation in industrial sector will further strengthen bilateral partnership between the two countries. The Minister said this while addressing a CPEC Forum on "Regional Cooperation and Industrial development through B2B Cooperation" here in Islamabad on Friday.

Deputy Chairman Senate Saleem Mandvi wala, Chinese ambassador Yao Jing, Project Director CPEC Hassan Dawood and representatives from different private sectors and seniors government officials were also attended the seminar. The Minister said partnership between Pakistan and China is decades old and CPEC is an important project of Belt and Road Initiative (BRI).

He said that incumbent government, under the visionary leadership of Prime Minister Imran Khan, is introducing reforms in various sectors. The Minister said that China will provide $1 Billion for socio-economic development projects in Pakistan, including education, health, and water and poverty alleviation.

Khusro Bakhtyar underlined the need to increase tax-to-GDP ratio for achieving sustained economic development. He highlighted that the government is taking various measures to enhance exports adding that China has granted free excess on export of 313 items. The consolidation of second phase of China Pakistan Free Trade agreement will increase Pakistan's exports by tapping the potential in agriculture, textile, food, minerals, engineering and other sectors. The Minister said that the incumbent government wants to promote B2B cooperation under CPEC framework and in this regard Pak-China Business forum is being established. He said that in the second phase of CPEC industrialist and business community will have to come forward and play their due role in development of the country.

For more information, contact:Principal Information Officer,Press Information Department (PID)Tel: +92-51-9252323, +92-51-9252324Fax: +92-51-9252325, +92-51-9252326Email: piopid@gmail.comWebsite: www.pid.gov.pk

Unquote