Source: Pakistan Observer
Publisher: Pakistan Observer
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Observer 
Publication Date: Nov 26, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Pakistan-China friendship touching new heights: Buzdar

Snippet: Chief Minister Punjab Sardar Usman Buzdar has said, 'It is sanguine that Pakistan-China relations are touching new heights and bilateral friendship is even more strengthened today. In fact, Pakistan-China friendship is going stronger day by day, he added. He said that CPEC project is a game-changer initiative for Pakistan which has written a new history of economic cooperation between the two countries.

He expressed these views while talking to a 36-member business delegation led by President China-Pakistan Friendship Association (CPFA) and former Under Secretary General of the UN Mr Sha Zukang who called on him at his office at 90-SQA on Tuesday. During the meeting, both discussed matters of mutual interest including promotion of Pakistan-China relations and CPEC related projects and it was agreed to further promote bilateral cooperation under the CPEC.

Body: 
Talking on this occasion, the chief minister said that China is the most trustworthy and sincere friend which has always sided with Pakistan in every hour of trial. China has become a global economic power due to untiring efforts of its leadership while a solid foundation of development has been laid through CPEC project in Pakistan, he added. Usman Buzdar expressed the satisfaction that bilateral relations are further strengthened during the incumbent government of PTI adding that continuous contacts are essential to further promote the relations in future.

He assured that Chinese investment will be welcomed and investors will be given every possible facility by the Punjab government. He said that public-private partnership authority has been established to promote private investment in the province and Chinese investors can take benefit of projects launched through PPP mode. Mr Sha Zukang, on this occasion, said that CPEC has given new heights to Pakistan-China relations and added that this cooperation is being strengthened with every passing moment.

The CPEC has given new dimensions to Pakistan-China relations while this friendship is a glowing example of mutual cooperation, love, affection and regional peace in the whole world.

The CPEC is a flagship programme of road and belt project while the people are interlinked with each other through the bonds of mutual respect. Chinese Consul General Long Dingbin, besides provincial ministers Mian Mehmood-ur-Rasheed, Sardar Muhammad Asif Nakai, Sardar Husnain Bahadur Dreshak, Muhammad Mohsin Leghari, Akhtar Malik, Malik Nauman Ahmad Langrial, Advisor Dr Salman Shah, Chairman P and D and others, was also present on this occasion.