Source: Business Recorder
Publisher: Emmay Zed Publications (Private) Ltd
Byline: TAHIR AMIN 
Copyright: © 2019 Business Recorder. All Rights Reserved. 
Publication Date: Apr 19, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,easiaz,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: PM's visit to China: Preliminary design of ML-1 project to be signed

Snippet: Pakistan and China will sign the preliminary design of ML-1 project during the upcoming visit of Prime Minister Imran Khan to Beijing. Minister for Railways Sheikh Rashid Ahmed said this while talking to Vice-Governor of China's province Hubei, Huang Chuping, here on Friday.

He said that completion of Peshawar to Karachi Main Line-1 project will bring revolution to railways. Rashid said that the projects of China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) have ushered in a golden era between the two countries. Last week, the federal minister said that the Main Line-1 (ML-1) project will provide jobs to 150,000 people of the country. Rashid claimed that he would step down if he fails to give employment to 150,000 people after completion of the ML-1 project.

Body: 
The CPEC project of railways will consist of early harvest - ML-1, up-gradation and establishment of dry port - midterm - establishing new rail link from Gwadar to Mastung and Besima to Jacobabad - and long-term -establishing new rail link from Havelian to Khunjrab (China border).

China and Pakistan are expected to reach an agreement for finances on ML-1 soon, said the officials of railways, adding that estimated cost of up-gradation of ML-1 and dry port is $8.2 billion which would be completed in five years in two phases. The project of up-gradation of ML-1 has been declared a strategic commercial project with loan on favourable terms as it presents a perfect business plan covering 75 percent traffic/population and 65 percent industrial areas.

With the up-gradation of ML-1, train speed will increase from the current 65-105 km to 120-160 km, line capacity from 34 to 171 trains each way per day, freight volumes from six to 35 million tonnes per annum by 2025, railway share of freight transport volume will increase from less than 4 percent to 20 percent.

The up-gradation will enhance speed, reduce travel time and enhance the number of trains per day and hence will generate more revenue and decrease the burden on roads. The up-gradation will be in two phases and preferences will be determined on basis of continuity of operations and condition of tracks.