Source: The Express Tribune
Publisher: The Express Tribune
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. The Express Tribune News Network. 
Publication Date: Oct 02, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,karch,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: China gifts equipment to Gwadar fishermen

Snippet: Realizing the economic hardship of Gwadar's fishermen, the Karachi Consulate General of the People's Republic of China, on behalf of the Chinese people and government, has gifted goods worth 200,000 US dollars including boat power engines, solar handy lights, a small home solar system, fishing nets etc. It has also said that it hoped the gifts would help the local population gain some relief from their day-to-day difficulties. The goods are expected to support a substantial number of fishermen. The Chinese government has also pledged further aid for Balochistan, including for the Gwadar Port City, under the socio-economic development phase of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) which addresses the issues that people are facing.

China denies slowdown in CPEC projects

Body: 
The People's Republic of China's Karachi Consul General Wang Yu presented the goods at a simple ceremony in Karachi to Gwadar Fishermen Alliance Chairman Khudadad Wajo and fishermen's representatives. Also present on the occasion were Balochistan Economic Forum President Sardar Shoukat Popalzai and prominent city leader and former Gwadar Nazim Baboo Gulab.

In his remarks, the Consul General said the Pakistan-China relationship could best be described as promising, flourishing and a success story, adding that, over the years, the unique friendship had evolved into a strong strategic partnership featuring robust economic cooperation and increasing people-to-people contacts.

Chief Minister Jam Kamal plants sapling at Akhuwat University

He termed Pakistan-China strategic ties as being on an upward trajectory, with an increased thrust on economic interaction, after CPEC's initiation. He further said that CPEC would also address the economic backwardness of the province of Balochistan, thus enabling the province's people to progress economically and enjoy the fruits of development.

The province's natural resources would also be explored which would further enhance the strategic significance of Balochistan, adding that CPEC would also provide job opportunities for Balochistan's youth and equip them with modern innovative skills.