Source: Frontier Star
Publisher: Frontier Star Publisher
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 Asianet-Pakistan 
Publication Date: Mar 29, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Western route of CPEC to develop deprived regions of Balochistan: PM

Snippet: Prime Minister Imran Khan has expressed the confidence that development of western route of China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) will enhance connectivity and develop the deprived areas of Balochistan. Prime minister said that more and more we will concentrate on the development of Balochistan it will not only help progress of Balochistan but will also help progress of whole Pakistan. He said that a strong local government system is required for the resolution of the problems faced by people of Balochistan. Prime minister said that due to the path followed by old Pakistan, today's Pakistan have become bankrupt. Prime minister said that we are paying Rs 6 billion daily in form of interest on the loans taken in past.

Body: 
He was addressing a ceremony after ground breaking of Cardiac Centre and Quetta-Zhob Dual Carriageway in Quetta on Friday. Army Chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa, Foreign Minister Makhdoom Shah Mehmood Qureshi, Minister for Planning and Development Makhdoom Khusro Bakhtiar, Minister for Defense Production Zubaida Jalal, Minister for Railways Sheikh Rasheed Ahmed, Commander Southern Command Lieutenant General Asim Saleem Bajwa and other high officials were present in the ceremony.

The Prime Minister said the carriageway will connect Balochistan not only with different parts of the country but also the region.

The Prime Minister said the federal government with the cooperation of provincial government and Pakistan Army will also establish a cancer hospital in Quetta.

He appreciated the Army Chief Qamar Javed Bajwa for using his connections with the UAE government to set up to the Cardiac Centre.

Imran Khan said the present government believes in uplifting all parts of the country. He regretted that Balochistan was neglected in the past.

Prime Minister Imran Khan praised Balochistan Chief Minister Jam Kamal and said, "Balochistan is a lucky province to get a chief minister like Kamal."

"The country was headed towards destruction with the way it was being run previously and the ways of 'Purana Pakistan' had made the country bankrupt. The previous rulers used Balochistan's resources for their personal gains," the prime minister said.

PM Imran lamented, "In the past, politics was only done in Balochistan to win elections. The previous prime minister visited foreign countries five times more than he visited Balochistan."

"In the NFC award, money was increased for Balochistan but it not reach the people. There was no cardiac institute in the province," he regretted. "We will pull Pakistan out of these flawed systems and bring change," PM Imran vowed.

Speaking about the Quetta-Zhob Dual Carriageway, the premier said it was a difficult project. "The Quetta-Zhob Dual Carriageway will connect the province to other parts of the country," he said.

"We also needed to pay attention towards the western route," PM Imran said and added that the government wishes to make a railway track from Quetta to Taftan and Railways Minister Sheikh Rashid is making efforts in this regard.

"We need to make a master plan for Quetta," he urged while stating that Pakistani cities are expanding. "As cities expand, people will not be able to receive facilities and will face more difficulties."

PM Imran further said that under CPEC, the western route should have been made first.

The premier also stressed the need for a "strong local government system for Balochistan". "Till local government system is not improved, people's quality of life will not be improved. In Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, we improved the local government system owing to which we emerged successful there for a second time," he added,

"The country also faces water issues for which we are building a dam. We do not want to think about other elections but our country's progress," he asserted. "If Balochistan is focused on then the whole country will progress," he stated.

"The people of Balochistan fear that they will become a minority and lose their jobs," the premier said. "We were discussing this earlier, we need institutes for technical education and skill development. I will discuss this further with the chief minister," he told the ceremony.

Terming the western route of CPEC a "game changer", the prime minister said that work on this should have started earlier. "China was working on the eastern route, we should have worked on the western route," he said. "This 305 kilometre route will bring a lot of change and development."

Balochistan Chief Minister Jam Kamal also addressed the ceremony and said, ""Prime Minister Imran Khan is working to address the grievances of people of Balochistan."

Kamal thanked the prime minister for starting the work in real terms on the western route of CPEC and said the project is a game changer for the whole region.

"The Balochistan Health Complex is a joint project of Pakistan Army and the provincial government," the provincial chief minister said and praised the role of Army Chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa for starting this project in collaboration with the government of United Arab Emirates.

"Health is a basic need and this center is a great gift for the people of the province," he stated.

Kamal regretted that development of Balochistan was ignored in the past due to lack of accountability, sustainability and planning strategy.

"The armed forces and people of Balochistan have rendered numerous sacrifices during the last 15 years for bringing peace and stability in the province. Today's Balochistan is much better than that of yesteryears."

The Cardiac Centre project will be constructed within a two year period with the financial assistance of United Arab Emirates.

The cardiac hospital will house latest medical facilities including state of the art operation theatres, Echo and nuclear Cardio facilities. To make the facility environment friendly Bio Medical Workshop and Waste Management Plant will also be constructed.

Road Quetta- Zhob (N-50 motorway) will link Quetta with Zhob while passing through Kuchlak, Muslim Bagh and Qilla Saifullah. It will reduce travelling time between Quetta and Dera Ismail Khan from 12 hours to 4 hours and help uplifting socio-economic activity for local population, particularly local businesses by providing access to minerals and mines and direct access to main markets.

The road will also facilitate speedy transportation of goods from Khyber Pakhtunkhwa to sea port of Karachi.

N-50 being primary sub regional corridor running parallel to the western border connecting Afghanistan and Iran with Pakistan and vital connectivity of CPEC western alignment leading to Gwadar Port.

Meanwhile according to ISPR, Prime Minister Imran Khan arrived in Quetta on Friday. PM did earth breaking of joint venture of Pakistan Army and Government of Balochistan mega projects including state of the art Cardiac Centre and Quetta - Zhob Road (N-50 Motorway) Chief of Army Staff General Qamar Javed Bajwa and Chief Minister Balochistan Mir Jam Kamal Khan accompanied PM during earth breaking ceremony. Pakistan Army in collaboration with Government of Balochistan has planned construction of a state of art Cardiac Centre at Quetta as part of Khushal Balochistan Programme for providing best medical facility for local population under UPAP projects sponsored by United Arab Emirates.

The cardiac hospital will house latest medical facilities including state of the art operation theatres, Echo and nuclear Cardio facilities. To make the facility environment friendly Bio Medical Workshop and Waste Management Plant will also be constructed.

Road Quetta- Zhob (N-50 motorway) will link Quetta with Zhob passing through Kuchlak, Muslim Bagh and Qilla Saifullah reducing travelling time between Quetta and Dera Ismail Khan from 12 hours to 4 hours and uplifting socio- economic activity for local population particularly local businesses by providing access to minerals and mines and direct access to main markets. The road will also facilitate speedy transportation of goods from KP to sea port of Karachi.

N-50 being primary sub regional corridor running parallel to the western border connecting Afghanistan and Iran with Pakistan and vital connectivity of CPEC western alignment leading to Gawadar Port . Federal and a Provincial Ministers, MPAs and large number of senior civil and military officials were present on the occasion.