Source: BBC Monitoring South Asia
Publisher: The British Broadcasting Corporation
Byline: 
Copyright: (c) 2019 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation. 
Publication Date: Oct 30, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Highlights from Pakistan's Pashto-language TV, press, websites 30 Oct 19

Snippet: THE FOLLOWING IS A BBCM SELECTION OF MAJOR NEWS ITEMS PUBLISHED IN PAKISTAN'S PASHTO-LANGUAGE TV, PRESS AND ONLINE MEDIA OUTLETS ON 30 OCTOBER 2019.

Wahdat

Body: 
Consultation work begins for expressway: KP Chief Minister

The Chief Minister of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP) province Mahmood Khan has said that the consultation process on Peshawar to Dera Ismail Khan expressway is currently going on and it is expected that the survey work will be completed in upcoming January 2020. While chairing a review meeting, the chief minister said that the expressway will facilitate the southern areas of the province in transportation and it will boost up the local businesses and tourism. (front page, 260 words approx.)

Special arrangements made for anti-polio campaign: Dr. Mirza

Special Assistant to Prime Minister for Health Dr. Zarfar Mirza has said that they have made all the arrangements for the successful anti-polio campaign in the country. He said that under the leadership of Prime Minister Imran Khan the country will be eradicated of Polio. He urged that the parents should vaccinate their children to avoid them from polio disease. (back page, 220 words approx.)

Focussed on implementation of IMF programme: Finance adviser

Adviser to the Prime Minister on Finance Dr. Abdul Hafeez Shaikh has said that they are focussed on the implementation of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) reforms. He said the results of the program are coming in the form of economic stability and progress. He said that the economic policies of the government are now bearing fruits in the form of economic stability. (front page, 240 words approx.)

[Wahdat gives good and equal coverage to both sides of the Durand Line (Pakistan-Afghan frontier), with a focus on Pashtun issues. The paper also publishes interviews with Afghan political leaders. It provides a balanced mix of anti-Taliban and pro-Taliban opinion.]

Khabroona

High Court suspends Nawaz Sharif's sentence for eight weeks

Islamabad High Court has granted bail to the former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif in Al-Azizia Steel Mills case on the medical grounds and suspended his sentence for eight weeks. The Islamabad Accountability Court sentenced Nawaz Sharif for seven years in Al-Azizia reference and imposed fine of 1.5 billion rupees (9m dollars) on 24 December, 2018. (front page, 200 words approx.)

High court lifts the ban on closure of Motorway, GT road

Peshawar High Court has directed government to ensure motorway and GT roads remain open amid Jamiat Ulema-i-Islam(Fazl) (JUI-F) protest march. The court also ordered to lift the ban on the live coverage of Maulana Fazlur Rehman, the chief of JUI-F, on electronic media platforms. The court said that government has the intention to block the road as freight containers are kept on the road sides. The court directed that under no circumstances the roads will be closed. (front page, 240 words approx.)

ANP will fully participate in protest march

Senator [member of the upper house of the parliament] Maulana Atta Ur Rehman of JUI-F visited Wali Bagh Charsada, where he met Awami National Party's (ANP) Khyber Pakhtunkhwa President Aimal Wali Khan. The JUI-F leader acknowledged ANP participation in the rally. Aimal Wali Khan said that they will act on the decision of opposition parties. (front page, 180 words approx.)

[Khabroona is owned by the Peshawar-based Subh Group, which also publishes the Urdu daily Subh. It provides good coverage to both sides of the Durand Line (the Pakistan-Afghan frontier), with a focus on Pashtun issues. It provides a balanced mix of anti-Taliban and pro-Taliban opinion.]

Hewad

KP Government to establish emergency stations on highways

Khyber Pakhtunkhwa government in cooperation with USAID (United States Agency for International Development - an international development agency) will establish eight emergency stations on the highways. According to the official of KP Relief, Rehabilitation, and Settlement department, the government has inaugurated the construction of eight satellite emergency stations on various highways and motorways of the province. (back page, 180 words approx.)

Prime minister must resign from his post: JUI-F Chief

The chief of JUI-F, Maulana Fazlur Rehman, has said that Prime Minister Imran Khan must resign from his post. He said that they [JUI-F and other opposition parties] do not accept the results of the general election which happened on 5 July, 2018. He added that they started their protest march from the gateway of Islam [Sindh province] and they are marching towards Islamabad. He said that the name of Islam will become more glorified once the rally reaches to Islamabad. (front page, 230 words approx.)

Everyone should join protest against government: ANP leader

Awami National Party (ANP) Khyber Pakhtunkhwa General Secretary Sardar Hussain Babak has said that it is the time that people from various walks of life should participate in the protest march. He said that the policies of the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) government are not in the favour of general public. He added the party workers were told to peacefully participate in the protest march. (front page, 180 words approx.)

[Hewad is Pakistan's oldest Pashto newspaper, and gives equal coverage to both sides of the Durand Line (the Pakistan-Afghanistan frontier), with a focus on Pashtuns and religion.]

Tribal News Network

US accepts China's offer to initiate stalled peace talks

The United States has accepted the offer of the Chinese government to initiate peace talks between the Afghanistan government and Taliban. Earlier the U.S. Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation, Zalmay Khalilzad, met current President of Afghanistan, Ashraf Ghani, and Prime Minister of Pakistan Imran Khan. The meetings are considered to bring a change in the political scenario of Afghanistan. (front page, 250 words approx.)

JUI-F 'Freedom March' enters into Punjab province

JUI-F protest march has entered Punjab, after starting its journey from Karachi. The protest march under the leadership of Maulana Fazlur Rehman started from Sohrab Goth in Karachi three days ago. The opposition parties are also participating in the protest march. Rehman while addressing the volunteers said that they will engage in the political struggle, as there is threat to the constitution of the country. (front page, 200 words approx.)

JUI-F leader dead in a firing incident in Bajaur district

JUI-F leader Mufti Sultan Mehmood injured in an attack in Bajaur district died last night [29 October]. The JUI-F figure was injured during firing incident by unknown assailants; he was shifted to the district headquarter hospital and later to the Combined Military Hospital in Peshawar, where he died of his injuries. The local people said that government failed to provide protection to the political figure. (front page, 200 words approx.)

[Tribal News Network (TNN) is a Peshawar-based online multimedia news agency. It provides news from Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and the erstwhile tribal areas and focusses on their issues and problems. It was established in 2014 to serve radio audiences through partner FM radio stations and has now evolved into a news portal.]

Pashtun Gazette

Afghanistan government lists condition for talks with Taliban

The National Security Advisor of Afghanistan, Hamdullah Mohib, has said that for national reconciliation talks President Ashraf Ghani has decided to adopt a new way forward. He said the new plan have seven points, in which talks with [Afghan] Taliban has been put in government preferences. In this new approach the Afghanistan government has asked the United States about how they will tackle terrorism after the withdrawal of allied forces from Afghanistan. He said that government will talk with Taliban on the condition that they [Afghan Taliban] will observe cease fire for one month. (front page, 300 words approx.)

[Pashtun Gazette is a bilingual news portal in Pashto and Urdu. Reportage in the two languages differs due to the different target audiences. The Pashto section of the website is mostly about Pakistan's erstwhile tribal areas, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Afghanistan, while the Urdu section is about mainstream Pakistani issues.]

Date Line (Prime Time Talk Show on AVT Khyber News at 17:00 GMT)

Opposition's protest march

Anchor Hassan Khan said that JUI-F march has entered into the heart of Pakistan, Lahore, and it is expected that the march will reach Islamabad, national capital of Pakistan on November 1. He added that currently most of the news in the country are negative in nature and it seems that the agitation politics is taking over the country.

Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) leader Sajid Khan Turi said that the opposition should provide some space to the government, so that they can work on their reforms agenda. He said that if the 2018 general election were engineered, then the opposition parties should have resigned from the parliament. He added that there are mafias in the parliaments, government institutions who are opposing the government reforms agenda.

Awami National Party (ANP) leader Zahid Khan said today democracy is just for the name in the country. He said that they have doubts that in real [practically] the country is not run by the government itself. He said that there is no difference in dictatorship and democracy in the country. He added the prime minister is not ready to talk with opposition parties on any issue.

JUI-F's Information Secretary Jalil Jan said that the protest march is owned by all the political parties. He said that the plan B will be announced once all the opposition parties have reached to Islamabad. He said that Prime Minister Imran Khan has degraded politicians and army on the international forums.

[AVT Khyber News is Pakistan's first Pashto-language satellite news channel and was launched in 2007. The Islamabad-based channel is owned by the AVT group, which first launched AVT Khyber (an entertainment channel) in 2004. AVT says it is "the voice of Pashtuns around the world". It has a network of reporters in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province and in Afghanistan.]

Mashriq Leads (Prime Time Talk Show on Mashriq TV at 14:00 GMT)

Rise in flour prices, bakers' association announces protest

Anchor Salman Ali Shah said that bakers are on protest in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province due to the rising price of flour and they have asked the government to allow them to increase the price of the breads. Bakers Association President Muhammad Iqbal Yousafzai said that the current government does not have any proper policy; they are asking for breads on old prices, while the prices of various commodities have risen over time. He added that the district administration is not cooperating with them; therefore, they have no other option but to protest. He said that if the price of flour did not decrease in one week then they will announce their own rates.

Educational Boards operating without Chairperson

Anchor Salman Ali Shah said that five out of eight educational boards are operating without the chairman. Former Chairman Intermediate and Secondary Education Peshawar Dr. Fazalur Rehman said that chairmanship of educational board is a round-the-clock job, which demands the presence of the chairperson as there might be cases of emergency, matters of secrecy. He said that without the chairman it is difficult to manage the educational board. Adviser to the KP Chief Minister for Education Zia Ullah Bangash said that the deployments of chairpersons are in the final stages.

[Mashriq TV is a Pashto-language channel launched in August 2016 and is a partner station of the BBC. It is owned by the Mashriq group of newspapers which also publishes English-language daily The Statement. The channel is observed to carry balanced reporting with no overt leanings towards any political party or group.]

Source: BBC Monitoring in Pashto 1030 gmt 30 Oct 19