Source: The Nation
Publisher: News Bites Pty Ltd
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 Asianet-Pakistan 
Publication Date: Sep 17, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Govt to set up special media tribunals

Snippet: The Federal Cabinet which met with Prime Minister Imran Khan in the chair on Tuesday decided to set up Special Media Tribunals to resolve issues relating to media industry and stakeholders.

Briefing the media on the decisions taken by the Federal Cabinet, Prime Minister's Special Assistant on Information and Broadcasting Dr Firdous Ashiq Awan said that the media tribunals will replace Pakistan Electronic Media Regulatory Authority's Council of Complaints to resolve issues pertaining to media and other stakeholders.

Body: 
She said that the tribunals will decide a matter within 90 days. She said a bill in this regard will be tabled in the National Assembly.

Dr Firdous Ashiq Awan said that the higher judiciary will patronize these tribunals. She said that all the pending cases with PEMRA will be referred to media tribunals.

Firdous said that Prime Minister Imran Khan and the government believe in facilitation and empowerment of media.

She said that establishment of media tribunals is an attempt to introduce best practices, norms and code of conduct of the democratic societies of the world.

The special assistant said that Prime Minister Imran Khan also took the cabinet into confidence over his upcoming visit to the United States.

She said that the Prime Minister apprised the cabinet about his agenda and priorities to highlight the Kashmir issue at UN General Assembly session and during his interactions with the international leadership and the media.

Firdous said that the cabinet has also decided to file a review petition against Election Commission of Pakistan's recent decision declaring PML-N leader Maryam Nawaz eligible to hold office of Vice President of the party.

She said that Maryam Nawaz is a convicted person and cannot hold office of a political party under the law. The Special Assistant said that the cabinet approved health cards for transgender class across Pakistan. She said that around 5,000 such people exist in Pakistan and their data is being compiled with the help of NADRA.

She said that the cabinet has decided to establish old age homes in the name of 'Maskan' at district level under the Ehsas Programme for the elderly people in the country.

She said that the first 'Maskan' will be established in Sialkot as a pilot project, which will be replicated in rest of the country at a later stage.

The Prime Minister has directed the concerned ministry to prepare priorities in this regard, she added.

Firdous said extension of one-time work visa for Chinese citizens was also approved to ensure unhindered work on the development projects being completed with Chinese cooperation in Pakistan.

She said that the Prime Minister also directed to fully implement the deadline for filling the vacant posts in various government departments.

The Special Assistant informed that the cabinet approved transfer of erstwhile FATA's Zakat funds to Khyber Pakhtunkhwa government.

The Special Assistant said 244 rehabilitation centres will be established for the treatment of drug addicted people.

She said prevention from drugs will be made part of the syllabus to save youth from falling prey to such menace.

Regarding growing incidents of Dengue, she said the Federal Government has instructed provinces to evolve an effective strategy to control the disease.

She said every possible step will be taken to provide medical assistance to patients suffering from dengue.

Firdous said the cabinet approved abolishing premium on purchase of new cars.