Source: Dawn
Publisher: Pakistan Herald Publications (Pvt.) Limited
Byline: Khalid Hasnain 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Dawn 
Publication Date: Dec 03, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,laho,pakis,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Work on Orange Line will continue well beyond Dec 10, say officials

Snippet: Prime Minister Imran Khan's recent announcement about the formal launch of the Lahore Orange Line Metro Train (OLMT) project on Dec 10 seems unrealistic if the point of view of those engaged in accomplishing the multi-billion transport project is something to go by.

Officials say the project's commercial operation is unlikely to begin before April next year.

Body: 
'It is unrealistic to begin its operation by Dec 10. Various jobs related to electric, mechanical and civil works, award of operation and maintenance project, deployment of the drivers and staff at stations etc are still pending,' a senior official told Dawn.

'I think it will take four months to accomplish the task. The commercial operation of the train will hopefully begin by April,' said the official who requested he not be named.

The OLMT is the first mega public transport project being executed under the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC). Envisaged by Shahbaz Sharif-led PML-N government in December 2013, the tenders for the project were floated on Jan 29, 2014. After a meeting of the then president of Pakistan with the Chinese premier on Feb 19 in Beijing, China decided to fund the project through soft loan and declared it a 'gift to Pakistan'.

On June 24, China recommended CR-NORINCO Joint Venture for execution of the project. After getting a go-ahead, the LDA started civil work assigned by the company in October 2015. In May 2018, the last month of the PML-N five-year tenure, Shahbaz Sharif had the test run of the train conducted just ahead of the 2018 general election.

The PTI government after coming into power in Punjab allegedly expressed doubts about various contracts of the project and also sought fresh tendering of the operation and maintenance contract that was earlier almost finalised by Shahbaz Sharif's government. On the direction of Chief Minister Usman Buzdar, the Punjab Mass Transit Authority started the tendering process afresh, causing delay in the commercial operation (formal launch of the project for the public at large).

'At present, the appraisal/evaluation of two potential Chinese bidders is almost complete. And soon it would be awarded to the eligible bidder,' an official source told this reporter. Previously, he said, there was a plan to entrust the CR-NORINCO with O and M of the project. But during evaluation made by the PML-N government, the bid of a Chinese-Korean JV was found suitable. But the PTI government in Punjab expressed doubts about the previous process, directing the PMTA to invite tenders for the project afresh.

Sources said the PMTA was making preparations for carrying out test run of all 27 sets of the trains on Dec 10 that couldn't be done on Oct 20 -- a date fixed earlier for this purpose.

'It's not clear how senior officials briefed him (PM) on the launch of the project. The orange line's commercial operation is not possible on the given date,' the official claimed.

No official of the PMTA was available for comment.