Source: Dawn
Publisher: Pakistan Herald Publications (Pvt.) Limited
Byline: Saleem Shahid 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Dawn 
Publication Date: Dec 30, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,pakis,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Chinese firm, TCF join hands to set up school in Gadani

Snippet: The China Power Hub Generation Company and The Citizens Foundation (TCF) signed an agreement on Monday to build a school in the Gadani area of Lasbela district.

Construction of the school building at a cost of Rs30 million has commenced and the first class will start in April next year. The school will accommodate 180 children and it will be a source of education for less privileged segment of society.

Body: 
The Chinese company has so far spent Rs124m on various sustainable Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives since 2016.

The school in Gadani will be the first TCF school to be financed by a project of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor.

This is the second collaboration between the Chinese company and TCF.

At the time of the FIFA World Cup last year, the Chinese company financed the construction of a football pitch at the TCF-Mouza Kund schools.

Speaking at the agreement signing ceremony, CEO of the China Power Hub Generation Company (Pvt) Ltd Zhao Yonggang reiterated his company's commitment to help improve the living conditions of the people of Lasbela. 'Education is the only way forward for a nation,' he said.

'Out CSR efforts can be summarised in the famous proverb; 'give a man a fish and you feed him for a day; teach a man to fish and you feed him for a lifetime'. Education will help to ensure a peaceful and prosperous future for the coming generations,' Mr Yonggang said.

The China Power Hub Generation Company has a very active CSR programme. During its construction phase the company has contributed to sustainable CSR initiatives that have helped better the lives of the people benefiting from them.

These include the Floating Fishermen Jetty at Allana Goth; the Clean Hub City programme; training of local students and providing them with employment at the plant; providing relief supplies for the flood-stricken people of Lasbela district.