Source: Pakistan Observer
Publisher: Pakistan Observer
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Observer 
Publication Date: Oct 21, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Govt to support joint investment projects under CPEC Imran inaugurates coal-fired Hub power station

Snippet: Prime Minister Imran Khan on Monday said that the government would support joint investment projects involving companies from Pakistan and China under the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor.

Addressing the inauguration ceremony of a 1,320MW coal-fired Hub Power Station in Hub, a city in the Lasbela District of Balochistan, set up by the China Power Hub Generation Company under the CPEC project, the prime minister said that he wanted to see the pattern of joint projects continue under CPEC.

Body: 
'I am happy that under CPEC, the first joint project [is being inaugurated]. We want to see the pattern continue,' the premier said, adding that big Chinese companies want to come to Pakistan.

'The joint projects are welcome; the government will fully support [such projects],' he said, urging the managers of the newly built power plant to consume at least 20 per cent coal from the Thar coal reserves.

The project 'will help us reduce the Current Account Deficit,' he added.

Prime Minister Imran said that there was a huge CAD when the Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf assumed power, and held the deficit left by the previous government responsible for the prevailing inflation.

He asked the local and Chinese companies which built the power project to accelerate work on a desalination plant for Karachi 'as water is a big issue for the city'.

The government had approved the processing of 1,320MW imported coal-based power project at Hub in November 2014 and the joint venture of Hubco and CPIH was issued letter of intent in June 2015. In February 2016, the National Electric Power Regulatory Authority (Nepra) had approved the upfront tariff for the power project.

'The successful completion of CPHGC project has fortified the dream of energy independence of Pakistan.' The prime minister said that the government was committed to fulfilling its pledge on ease of doing business. 'Since we came to power, we have been working for ease of doing business. We are continuously striving to create ease of doing business,' he added.

He said that he was told by an executive of a foreign mining firm that Pakistan has the best and the largest gold reserves in the world, which can be mined very easily.

Addressing Balochistan Chief Minister Jam Kamal Khan Alyani, the premier said that there is good news for him (Alyani) as China has agreed to step into the fisheries sector. 'Mr chief minister you can develop Balochistan with the help of the fisheries sector alone,' he said. 'They (China) have agreed to cooperate in the fisheries and agriculture sectors.' Imran stressed the need to mobilise the country's resources and population. 'We have to make our young population our asset. They will propel Pakistan,' he said. He also asked the chief minister to build a Special Economic Zone in Lasbela.

'There are 6,000 Pakistani workers associated with the project,' said the prime minister. He further said that electricity is being produced from coal in Thar, adding that due to CPEC the country is progressing. During his visit, Prime Minister Imran said that Sindh's economic condition deteriorated due to corruption, adding that it is the responsibility of the provincial government to resolve issues of Karachi. The prime minister said that the centre is contributing in terms of resources as per its capacity. The premier also met with Governor Sindh Imran Ismail, where he assured that the K4 plan will be completed at any cost.

Imran Khan said the productivity of Chinese companies is quite higher than their counterparts in Pakistan and our country would like to benefit from it. He said we will introduce new techniques in farming sector in collaboration with Chinese enterprises.

He congratulated the Hubco Chairman Habibullah Khan on the project and asked him to use more indigenous coal for power generation. He also asked him to work on water projects for Karachi.

Members of National Assembly and Sindh Assembly belonging to PTI, MQM and GDA also met with the prime minister. The representatives and lawmakers apprised the prime minister about the issues of their constituencies and ongoing work.

Federal Minister for Parliamentary Affairs Azam Swati, Federal Minister for Planning Khusro Bakhtyar, Federal Minister for Water Resources Faisal Vawda, Special Assistant to the PM on Petroleum Nadeem Babar and former finance minister Asad Umar accompanied the PM. The premier was briefed about ongoing development projects in the city funded by the federal government.