Source: Daily Messenger
Publisher: Daily Messenger
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Daily Messenger 
Publication Date: Apr 11, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,pakis,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: PM assures maximum facilitation of Chinese companies in Pakistan

Snippet: Prime Minister Imran Khan said on Thursday that the government accorded top priority to the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), as it would not only help in translating the all-weather Pak-China relations into a mutually beneficial economic equation but would also open new vistas of opportunities for the entire region. The prime minister was meeting the representatives of 15 leading Chinese companies working on various CPEC and other projects in Pakistan.

Body: 
The Chinese delegation included representatives from Power China, Three Gorges Corporation, CMEC Neelum Jhelum Power Plant Project, Cr Norinco Orange Line Project, Huawei, Zong, Port Qasim Power Plant, China Gezhouba Corporation, China State Construction, China Harbour, Matiari-Lahore Transmission Line Project, Haier and other companies. Chinese Ambassador to Pakistan Yao Jing was also a part of the delegation. Power Minister Omar Ayub Khan, Planning Minister Makhdoom Khusro Bakhtiar, Board of Investment Chairman Haroon Sharif, Energy Task Force Chairman Nadeem Babar and other senior officials were also present on the occasion. Talking to the Chinese delegation, the prime minister said that the government would provide all possible facilitation to the Chinese companies in undertaking profitable business ventures and taking advantage of the business-friendly policies of the present government.

The Chinese ambassador, while conveying greetings from the Chinese president and premier, said that Chinese leadership was looking forward to the visit of the prime minister to China. He thanked the PM on behalf of Chinese leadership and business community for his personal interest in facilitating Chinese businessmen and addressing their issues. He assured the PM that Chinese companies would continue to partner with the government for the socioeconomic development of Pakistan.