Source: Pakistan Press International Information Services
Publisher: Pakistan Press International Information Services
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Press International Information Services 
Publication Date: Apr 10, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,pakis,chinaz,apacz,asiaz,bric,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Government accords top priority to China-Pakistan Economic Corridor Project: Imran Khan - Press Note issued by Press Information Department

Snippet: April 11, 2019 (PPI-OT)

Following is the text of press note issued by Press Information Department (PID)

Body: 
Quote

Prime Minister Imran Khan has said that the Government accords top priority to the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) Project. He said that the project will not only help in translating all weather Pak-China relations into mutually beneficial economic equation but will also open new vistas of opportunities for the entire region. The Prime Minister was meeting with representatives of 15 leading Chinese companies working on various CPEC and other projects in Pakistan.

The Chinese delegation included representatives from Power China, Three Gorges Corporation, CMEC Neelum Jhelum Power Plant Project, Cr-Norinco Orange Line Project, Huawei, Zong, Port Qasim Power Plant, China Gezhouba Corporation, China State Construction, China Harbour, Matiari-Lahore Transmission Line Project, Haier and other companies. Chinese Ambassador to Pakistan Mr Yao Jing accompanies the delegation.

Mr. Omar Ayub Khan, Minister for Power, Makhdoom Khusro Bakhtiar, Minister for Planning, Mr Haroon Sharif, Chairman BOI, Mr. Nadeem Babar, Chairman Energy Task Force and other senior officials were also present. Talking to the Chinese delegation, the Prime Minister said that the Government will provide all possible facilitation to the Chinese companies in undertaking profitable business ventures and taking advantage of business friendly policies of the present government.

Chinese Ambassador while conveying greetings from Chinese President and Premier, said that Chinese leadership is looking forward to the visit of Prime Minister to China. He thanked the Prime Minister on behalf of Chinese leadership and business community for his personal interest in facilitating Chinese businessmen and addressing their issues. He assured the Prime Minister that Chinese companies will continue to partner with the government in socio-economic development of Pakistan.

For more information, contact:Principal Information Officer,Press Information Department (PID)Tel: +92-51-9252323, +92-51-9252324Fax: +92-51-9252325, +92-51-9252326Email: piopid@gmail.comWebsite: www.pid.gov.pk

Unquote