Source: BBC Monitoring South Asia
Publisher: The British Broadcasting Corporation
Byline: 
Copyright: (c) 2019 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation. 
Publication Date: Jan 07, 2019

Region Codes: ,afgh,iran,pakis,kabul,asiaz,casiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,gulfstz,indsubz,meastz,sasiaz,wasiaz,

Title: Press selection list for Afghan newspapers 7 Jan 19

Snippet: Newspapers published in Kabul

Hasht-e Sobh (independent)

Body: 
1. Editorial entitled "Plunder of mines, disaster of needy workers' death" argues that Afghanistan's mines continue to be plundered by illegal armed individuals in different provinces, saying the death of 30 workers of a gold mine in the recent landslide in northern Badakhshan province proves that the government and the security institutions do not pay attention to the country's mines and other precious underground resources. (p 2, about 700 words in Dari, PROCESSING)

2. Article by Arzu Nurestani entitled "Projects of women's rights and forgotten women" accuses women's rights activists and the Ministry of Women's Affairs of paying no attention to deprived women's problems in Afghanistan's remote areas. It expresses concern over increased violence against women, and calls on the relevant bodies to take action against misogynists. (p 7, about 1,200 words in Dari, NPP)

3. Unattributed article entitled "We should not be concerned about withdrawal of US forces" gives an assurance that the Afghan security and defence forces are the capable of fighting insurgents and of defending their people and motherland. It calls on politicians and ordinary Afghans not to be worried about the US president's decision to pull out thousands of his country's soldiers from Afghanistan. (p 8, about 600 words in Dari, NPP)

4. Report by Fahim Amin entitled "Political observers: Regional visits by president's special representative will not produce any result" quotes a number of political observers as saying that regional visits by top government officials, including the president's special envoy for reconciliation process, will not produce any acceptable result unless Afghanistan's foreign policy is changed. (p 4, about 1,200 words in Dari, NPP)

5. Article by Ferdaus entitled "Tehran's pro-Taliban policy" describes the presence of insurgents with extremist views and ideologies in Afghanistan as the main factor behind Iran's alleged support for the Taliban. It claims with confidence that Iran's links with the Taliban stems from the presence of the coalition forces in Afghanistan, and calls on the Afghan government to convince Iran to change its pro-Taliban policies. (p 4, about 1,200 words in Dari, EXCERPT 500 words)

6. Report by Marzia Nabizada entitled "Some government offices closed in Takhar during past seven days" (p 5, about 600 words in Dari, NPP)

Mandegar (private)

1. Editorial entitled "No pretext for holding elections on 29 Saratan" accuses the Afghan government of taking control of the election commissions, and claims with confidence that the US will abandon Afghanistan after bringing the Taliban to power. It gives an assurance that the presidential office will be unable to force the IEC to rig the next presidential elections if political parties and ordinary people raise their voice and remove all the hurdles to the elections. (p 2, about 900 words in Dari, PROCESSING)

2. Article by Ahmad Emran entitled "Afghan-led peace, meaningless slogan" criticises Afghan leaders for failing to take the initiative of peace talks with the Taliban, saying no country will be able to bring peace and stability to Afghanistan without ordinary Afghans' sincere cooperation. It says achieving peace will be highly possible in case a powerful and broad-based government is established in Afghanistan. (p 2, about 1,200 words in Dari, NPP)

3. Unattributed article entitled "Afghan peace and Pakistan's game" describes the US president's decision to withdraw 7,000 of his country's soldiers from Afghanistan as good news for Pakistan, Iran and Russia. It endorses the allegation that Pakistan wastes time only and is not interested in playing a role in ending the Afghan conflict. (p 8, about 1,200 words in Dari, NPP)

4. Article translated by Abobaker Sediq entitled "Why is US unable to abandon Afghanistan?" calls on the US to put pressure on Pakistan for its overt and covert support for the Taliban, saying it will be an unwise move if thousands of the US forces are pulled out from Afghanistan in this sensitive situation. (pp 8, 6, about 1,200 words in Dari, NPP)

5. Article by Rohullah Behzad entitled "Does US want to abandon Afghanistan?" warns that the Afghan government will not last longer if the US and other NATO member countries do not support Afghanistan financially and militarily. It says giving the Taliban political concessions in peace talks will prove dangerous for the Afghan government and its international supporters. (p 6, about 1,000 words in Dari, NPP)

Weesa (private)

1. Editorial entitled "US to change nature of Afghan war" discusses a senior US official's remark that his country's special forces will stay in Afghanistan with the aim of targeting Taliban and Al-Qaeda fighters. It argues that the US president's decision to withdraw thousands of his country's soldiers from Afghanistan does not mean that all the US forces will abandon Afghanistan. It urges both the Taliban and the Afghan government to accept one another's legitimate and logical preconditions for peace talks. (p 2, about 550 words in Pashto, PROCESSING)

2. Article by Abdul Matin Watandar entitled "Afghan peace and Pakistan's behind-the-scene policy" argues that Pakistan has played a key role in strengthening the Taliban in Afghanistan during the past 18 years, saying the US should understand the fact that seeking Pakistan's help in ending the Afghan conflict is a mere craziness and absurdity. It calls for putting immense political, financial and military pressure on Pakistan so that Afghanistan achieves peace in a short period of time. (pp 1, 4, about 2,000 words in Pashto, NPP)

3. Article translated by Ahmad Khalid Rashidi entitled "Last week's casualties among Afghan security forces and civilians" says last week was fatal for Afghan civilians and the security forces as more than 100 security personnel and civilians were killed in militant attacks and air strikes by the coalition forces. (p 3, about 1,800 words in Pashto, NPP)

4. Article by Wadan Rokhan entilted "Lesson to be learnt from Trump's remarks and possible dangers" lashes out at the US president for justifying the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, and says the war on terror in Afghanistan has been launched and inflamed by the US and its international allies. It urges Afghan leaders and political personalities to set aside differences and mobolise the nation so that foreigners' dangerous conspiracies are foiled. (p 3, about 1,600 words in Pashto, NPP)

5. Article by Tahir Majab entitled "Strategy on withdrawal from Iraq cannot work in Afghanistan" calls on the US president to reverse his decision on troops' withdrawal from Afghanistan, saying not only the Taliban but also the Islamic State (IS) and other dangerous militant groups will also challenge the central Afghan government in the absence of the coalition forces. (p 2, about 1,500 words in Dari, NPP)

Arman-e Melli (close to the National Union of Journalists of Afghanistan)

1. Editorial entitled "Internally displaced persons need help" is concerned over a dramatic increase in number of internally displaced people in Afghanistan, saying violence and drought have forced hundreds of thousands of people to leave their localities and live in the open air. It urges the government and international aid organisations to do something to provide internally displaced families with winter kits and financial assistance. (p 2, about 700 words in Dari, PROCESSING)

2. Article by Abdul Matin Ferahmand entitled "Kabul worried about and hopeful for Tehran-Taliban talks" claims with confidence that Iran will be able to prove all the US's speculations and allegations on Tehran's financial support for the Taliban wrong if Tehran convinces the Taliban to hold direct talks with the Afghan government. It argues that Iran's support for the Taliban stems from the presence of Islamic State (IS) militants in Afghanistan's northern and eastern provinces. (p 2, about 1,400 words in Dari, NPP)

3. Article by Hamraz entitled "To what extent can regional meetings be effective for peace process?" comments on the Turkish president's remark that his country will host a tripartite meeting that will be attended by Turkish, Pakistani and Afghan officials in March, saying the Taliban and the US will not participate in such meetings. It accuses Pakistan of trying to dodge global pressures by holding meetings on Afghan peace in other regional countries. (p 4, about 1,600 words in Dari, NPP)

Etilaat-e Roz (private)

1. Editorial entitled "Behind delay in announcement of preliminary result of elections in capital" accuses the Independent Election Commission (IEC) of failing to hold the parliamentary elections in Kabul in a transparent manner, and urges the government to take action to solve the commission's technical problems as soon as possible. It warns that the next presidential elections will be controversial either if the IEC is unable to announce the result of the Kabul parliamentary elections in a satisfying manner. (pp 1, 2, about 900 words in Dari, EXCERPT 500 words)

2. Article by Abuzar Malekzada entitled "Dawudzai's Islamabad visit; why is Pakistan's role crucial in Afghan reconciliation?" endorses the allegation that Afghanistan will be unable to achieve peace without Pakistan's sincere cooperation, and welcomes the High Peace Council's decision to send a delegation to Pakistan to seek Islamabad's help in ending the Afghan conflict. (p 3, about 1,600 words in Dari, NPP)

3. Article translated by Jalil Pajwak entitled "Reality of Soviet war in Afghanistan; Trump not in garden" argues that the Russian president is now trying to enable the Taliban to step up attacks against the coalition forces in Afghanistan so that NATO member countries, especially the US, are obliged to abandon Afghanistan. It comments on the US president's recent remark that the former Soviet Union had the right to invade Afghanistan. (p 4, about 2,000 words in Dari, NPP)

Hewad (state-run)

1. Editorial entitled "Taliban should be forced to hold peace talks" accuses the Taliban of trying to sabotage ongoing peace efforts by Kabul and Washington on the instructions of their regional masters, saying Pakistan and Iran have stepped up efforts to prolong and escalate the Afghan conflict. It urges the international community to target Taliban leaders and hideouts outside Afghanistan. (p 2, about 600 words in Pashto, PROCESSING)

2. Article by Strategic Centre for Regional Studies entitled "Air pollution, big challenge for Afghans" is concerned over uncontrolled air pollution in Kabul and other big cities of Afghanistan, calling on the relevant bodies to take action to tackle the scourge as soon as possible. (p 4, about 2,000 words in Dari, NPP)

3. Article by Fazel Rabi Shinwari entitled "Regional countries now understand that Afghanistan will have good future" is sceptical about certain regional countries' cooperation with Afghanistan to achieve lasting peace. (p 2, about 1,600 words in Pashto, NPP)

3. Article by Shah Wali Qarar entitled "Trump's remarks on US's involvement in Afghan war stuns US allies as well" condemns the US president's remarks that the former Soviet Union had the right to invade Afghanistan. (pp 2, 5, about 1,200 words in Pashto, NPP)

Maseer (private)

1. Editorial entitled "Will peace talks come to right direction again?" describes the Taliban group's reluctance to hold direct talks with Afghan representatives as main factor behind the cancellation of the Jeddah conference on Afghan peace. It welcomes Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid's statement that they will hold talks with US diplomats only, saying this will help curtail foreign countries' hands in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. (p 2, about 600 words in Pashto, PROCESSING)

2. Article by Najib Manalai entitled "Delay in elections will prove costly" says the more the Independent Election Commission delays the presidential elections, the more President Ghani's political legitimacy is called into question. It claims with confidence that the elections will once again be rigged, calling on political parties and presidential candidates to persuade people to participate in the elections. (p 2, about 1,500 words in Pashto, NPP)

3. Report entitled "Qatar to host conference on Afghan peace; Taliban and US officials to hold talks in presence of Afghan delegation" (p 3, about 500 words in Pashto, NPP)

Sarkhat (private)

1. Editorial entitled "Negotiation linked with interference" is not confident that any peace talks in the absence of Afghan officials will produce any acceptable result, saying regional countries, including Russia, Iran and Pakistan, should no longer support the Taliban who have been killing the Afghan security forces and innocent civilians during the past 18 years. It calls on the Afghan government not to allow any regional or neighbouring country to pursue links with the Taliban. (p 2, about 600 words in Dari, PROCESSING)

2. Analysis entitled "High Peace Council becomes more active; it instructs government what to do and what not to do" describes the High Peace Council as an unsuccessful and corrupt government institution, saying one should not expect the council to make any progress in peace talks with the Taliban. It calls for dissolving the council as soon as possible. (p 2, about 800 words in Pashto, NPP)

3. Analysis entitled "Why are all silent about hurdles to elections?" is concerned over existing hurdles to the next presidential elections in Afghanistan, and describes insecurity as a big challenge for the elections. It urges the election commissions, political parties, government leaders, the international community, and ordinary Afghans to work together to remove all the hurdles to the elections. (p 2, about 900 words in Pashto, NPP)

Rah-e Madaneyat (private)

1. Editorial entitled "What is happening to elections?" claims with confidence that the IEC is unable to hold the next presidential and provincial council elections in a transparent, free and credible manner. It calls on the government to reform the election system and commissions by dismissing corrupt and inefficient commissioners. (p 2, about 800 words in Dari, NPP)

2. Article by Sumaya Ramesh entitled "Dear president, change leadership of Independent Election Commission" urges the president to dismiss the head and other inefficient members of the IEC, saying the next presidential elections will also be controversial if the election commissions are not reshuffled. (p 2, about 1,800 words in Dari, NPP)

Newspapers published in Kandahar

Orband weekly (private) 6 January

1. Report entitled "MP from Kandahar says mysterious killing of former Kandahar police Chief Gen Abdul Raziq stemmed from his tough stance on Durand Line" (pp 1, 2, about 1,000 words in Pashto, NPP)

2. Report entitled "China hopeful for peace between Afghan government and Taliban" (pp 1, 3, about 500 words in Pashto, NPP)

3. Report entitled "US commander in Afghanistan instructs his soldiers to be ready for any positive and negative result of Afghan peace efforts" (pp 1, 4, about 900 words in Pashto, NPP)

4. Report entitled "Twenty-five small dams to be constructed in Kandahar province this year" (pp 1, 2, about 1,000 words in Pashto, NPP)

5. Report entitled "Key developments in Pakistan in 2018" (p 2, about 800 words in Pashto, NPP)

Orband weekly (private) 30 December

1. Unattributed article entitled "Installation of solar power in Kandahar will remain mere dream only" criticises local officials for reneging on their pledges, saying they have made many deceitful and extravagant pledges to install solar power in Kandahar but they have failed to do so. (pp 1, 2, about 800 words in Pashto, NPP)

2. Report entitled "President explains reason behind appointment of ministers of acting interior affairs and national defence" says the President stated clearly that guarding the country's national interests was the main reason behind his decision to appoint Asadullah Khalid and Amrullah Salih as acting ministers of national defense and interior affairs. (pp 1, 4, about 750 words in Dari, NPP)

3. Report entitled "Minister of refugees and returnees says 84,000 displaced persons are in need of immediate assistance" (pp 1, 3, about 1,000 words in Pashto, NPP)

4. Editorial entitled "Government needs to pay attention to save our future generations" praises local officials in Kabul and Kandahar for their efforts to tackle air pollution and other environmental issues in the respective provinces. (p 2, about 1,000 words in Pashto, NPP)

5. Report entitled "Afghanistan-China friendship society to be established soon" says the joint society will work together to improve and expand the two countries' relations in different spheres. (p 3, about 900 words in Pashto, NPP)

6. Report entitled "US chief of army staff says his country's troops do not plan to abandon Afghanistan" (p 3, about 500 words in Pashto, NPP)

Tatobay weekly (private) 23 December

1. Report entitled "Peace efforts lead to optimism" is sceptical about regional countries' efforts to end the Afghan conflict and bring lasting peace to Afghanistan. (pp 1, 3, about 700 words in Pashto, NPP)

2. Report entitled "Over 6.5m Afghans live abroad" (pp 1, 2, about 1,000 words in Pashto, NPP)

3. Editorial entitled "Young people can play crucial role in nation-building" comments on the importance of young people' role in mobolising ordinary people in Afghanistan. (p 2, about 700 words in Pashto, NPP)

4. Commentary by Sardar Mohammad Hamdard entitled "Don't miss historic chance for peace" urges all the warring parties engaged in the Afghan conflict to do everything to bring peace to the country. (p 3, about 800 words in Pashto, NPP)

5. Commentary by Nisar Ahmad entitled "Pakistan to face historic defeat in Afghan peace process succeeds" (p 10, about 900 words in Pashto, NPP)

Source: As listed Source: Afghan press selection list in Dari and Pashto 07 Jan 19