Source: Pakistan Observer
Publisher: Pakistan Observer
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Observer 
Publication Date: Oct 14, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Huawei ICT competition reaches 12000+ registrations

Snippet: Huawei in collaboration with HEC is launched the fourth ICT competition 2019-2020 in August. The aim is to refine talent of students of universities at its utmost capacity. Matching with Huawie's mandate this program will enhance technical knowledge, empower computerized systems, and amplify industrial growth further append for digital transformation and boost employment. Huawei's dedicated talent ecosystem team worked day and night to aware the young students of colleges and universities about the competition.

ICT competition will benefit universities and students at a great level. Future economic growth is aimed after developing ICT knowledge and skills in students. National competitiveness will be increased through developing ICT talent in Pakistan. Up gradation of teaching methods and connectivity with the industrial development will be focused. This will direct the students to perceive employer's perspective by developing their ICT knowledge.

Body: 
Roadshows and awareness sessions were conducted at 50+ colleges and universities all around Pakistan. The number of registrations reached 12000+ which is the highest record in four years. Now the second phase of the competition will begin which is the national round in which preliminary exam will be taken from the registered students. The exam will be scheduled from 14th to 16th of October 2019 at different locations all over Pakistan. Out of all the students who will appear for the preliminary exam top 500 will qualify and will be shortlisted for round two which is the enablement training and certification exam.

Three contestants from Pakistan secured 2nd position out of 147 participants of Huawei ICT Competition 2018-2019 Global Final held in Shenzhen, China on 25-26 May, 2019. One of the successful candidates is a part of Huawei family as IP Datacom Engineer. Smart and young gentleman, Mr. Shamim started his journey after the 3rd Huawei ICT Competition.

He is a graduate of Virtual University of Pakistan. His interest in Computer Networking brought him so close to the IT industry. He took professional training in networking and -. He came to know about Huawei ICT competition through his university. Hardwork and dedication made him secure First position all over the Pakistan. Huawei encouraged his talent and gave him chance to participate in the global Final which was held in China.