Source: The Balochistan Times
Publisher: Asianet-Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 The Balochistan Times 
Publication Date: May 24, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,laho,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Convocation ceremony of 48th Pakistan Navy Staff Course held

Snippet: The convocation ceremony of 48th Pakistan Navy Staff Course was held at Pakistan Navy War College, Lahore on Friday, said a press release issued by Directorate of Public Relations of Pakistan Navy.

Chief of the Naval Staff, Admiral Zafar Mahmood Abbasi, who attended the ceremony as chief guest conferred Masters Degrees in War Studies (Maritime) to 95 graduates.

Body: 
The degree holders included 64 officers from Pakistan Navy, three from Pakistan Army, five from Pakistan Air Force and 23 officers from friendly countries including Bahrain, Bangladesh, China, Egypt, Indonesia, Iraq, Jordan, Libya, Malaysia, Myanmar, Oman Palestine, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Sri Lanka and UAE.

Addressing on the occasion, the Naval Chief congratulated the graduating officers and lauded the professional standards of Pakistan Navy War College.

He said that the presence of sizeable number of graduating officers from friendly countries was indicative of the trust reposed in our training regime and signifies the deep fraternal bonds of these countries with Pakistan.

He dilated upon the changing geo-strategic environment in the region and international arena in greater details. Underscoring the security environment in the region vis-a-vis recent standoff, Chief of the Naval Staff said, 'In accordance with government of Pakistan's policy to give peace a chance, we have demonstrated restraint.'

He said that with unwavering faith in Allah Almighty, Pakistan Navy was ever ready to defend maritime frontiers of our motherland.

He said that China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) was the flagship project under the 'Belt and Road Initiative' and Gwadar Port as CPEC's linchpin promises greater economic spin offs for the country, region and beyond.

Earlier, in his welcome address, Rear Admiral Naveed Ahmed Rizvi, Commandant Pakistan Navy War College gave a rundown of the 41 week long course and various professional and academic activities undertaken by the participants.

The ceremony was attended by a large number of distinguished civilian guests and senior officers of the armed forces of Pakistan.