Source: The Balochistan Times
Publisher: Asianet-Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 The Balochistan Times 
Publication Date: Apr 25, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,easiaz,chinaz,pakis,apacz,asiaz,bric,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: UoS awards 78,701 degrees at convocation

Snippet: The University of Sargodha (UoS) awarded degrees to 78,701 students at its 6th convocation, held here at main campus on Thursday.

The acting Chinese ambassador, Lijian Zhao, was the guest of honor while Vice Chancellor (VC) Dr Ishtiaq Ahmad presided over the ceremony.

Body: 
As many as 40 PhD degrees, 1,399 MPhil, 31,724 MA/MSc, 15,961 BS/BBA and 29,577 BA/BSc degrees were awarded to students in the disciplines of Medical and Health Sciences, Pharmacy, Agriculture, Sciences, Arts and Humanities and Social Sciences. Also, 480 students with distinctions were given medals. It was interesting to note that 61 per cent of those awarded degrees were girl students.

Addressing the ceremony, Lijian Zhao expressed gratitude to the VC for providing him an opportunity to visit Sargodha -- the city of eagles -- for the first time. He appreciated the UoS administration for building academic and research linkages with esteemed Chinese institutions.

The acting ambassador urged students to equip themselves with right knowledge and skills to play their part in taking Pak-China relations to the new heights and getting maximum benefits from China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC).

"In 2010, only 2,000 Pakistani students were studying in China; however this number increased exponentially ever since the launch of CPEC, taking it up to 28,000 in 2018. Pakistan currently ranks third in the number of students studying in China, behind South Korea and Thailand," he added.

He said that China offers a wide variety of scholarships to Pakistani students and encourages them to study in China. "Out of a total 28,023 Pakistani students studying in China, more than 7,000 are pursuing their education on scholarships."

Dr Ishtiaq Ahmad congratulated the students on their achievement. He said that the University is making a huge difference in the demographic and economic growth of Sargodha city and Punjab province, especially by generating skillful workforce, innovating agrarian products and providing community service.

After formal ceremony, the students celebrated their achievements with enthusiasm and fun-filled activities.