Source: The Express Tribune
Publisher: The Express Tribune
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. The Express Tribune News Network. 
Publication Date: Oct 10, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,laho,pakis,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: 'Energised' OLMT track poses safety risk

Snippet: The track of the country's first mass transit rail project, the Lahore Orange Line Metro Train (OLMT), has been energised, but it poses a great safety hazard to lives of citizens and animals. This was stated by Chinese engineers working on the project.

A site engineer of the CR-NORINCO, a joint venture of China State Railway Group (CR) and China North Industries Corporation (NORINCO), announced on Thursday that the entire rail line has been energised with high-voltage power.

Body: 
OLMT 'empowered' to enter testing phase

'Supply of electricity has been activated for the entire track of the OLMT project with high-voltage capacity at 33KV and low-voltage capacity at 0.4KV. However, the supply of electricity also poses a grave safety risk to the lives of people and animals. Particularly, in the instance of any accidental bare contact with any project wire or equipment with a cable connection, specifically the bare third-track line that supplies power to the entire train operation.'

He pointed out that CR-NORINCO has posted live working signs along the entire track of the metro train project to inform the public about the electric shock risk and to avoid any mishap.

'However, the company bears no liability or responsibility for covering any loss in case of any prohibited and unauthorised entry or access to any restricted project areas or throwing of any articles at any project area, including train stations, track lines, viaducts, depot or stabling yard,' he stated. All residents of Lahore have been informed to take precautions and show compliance towards safety instruction signs posted throughout the project, he added.

He went on to explain that any attempts of stealing or destroying any power cable or equipment, as has been observed and reported in the past, may now pose a grave danger of electrocution upon bare contact. 'Therefore, adopting safety precautions is of utmost importance for everyone.'

The OLMT project is part of the city metro network. Construction work started on October 25, 2015. It has a total length of 27.12 kilometres. Out of those, 25.4 kilometres are elevated track, while 1.72 kilometres track has been made underground to protect historical sites. The Orange Line Metro Train has 26 stations and 24 of those are at a height of 12 metres, whereas the remainder are underground. The number of trains is 27 and each one has 20 metre-long bogies with 60 seats. Separate seats are allocated for women, senior citizens and special persons. A public address system has been installed for the convenience of the passengers. The doors of the electric train are fully automatic and also installed on the platform to ensure double protection for passengers.

OLMT project may not see light of day this year

The train will run 27 kilometers from Ali Town to Dera Gujran in 45 minutes. It will pass through the congested areas of the city where more than 250,000 passengers commute every day.

According to official documents, within the next few years, OLMT will facilitate 500,000 passengers daily. Once the project is completed, it will connect Raiwind, Multan Road, Macleod Road, Lahore Junction Railway Station and the Grand Trunk Road. It will be the first line of the Lahore Metro, which is country's first mass rapid transit train system.