Source: Xinhua News Agency
Publisher: News and Information Center Xinhua News Agency
Byline: 刘天 
Copyright: Copyright 2019. Xinhua News Agency. All rights reserved. 
Publication Date: Jan 30, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,chinaz,apacz,asiaz,bric,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Pakistani president says CPEC to bring economic prosperity

Snippet: ISLAMABAD, Jan. 30 (Xinhua) -- Pakistani President Arif Alvi has hailed the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), saying it will bring economic prosperity.


 The president also expressed his willingness to learn the innovative measures by the Chinese government on poverty alleviation so as to improve Pakistani people's livelihood.


Body: 
 The president made the remarks in his greetings to the Chinese government and the Chinese people for the upcoming Chinese Spring Festival, or the Chinese Lunar New Year.


 "On behalf of the people and the government of Pakistan, I must extend my heartfelt felicitation to the government of China and the people of China."


 The friendship between Pakistan and China is "very important and valuable," the president told the Chinese media on Tuesday.


After decades of reform and opening-up, China has made tremendous progress and contributed greatly to poverty alleviation, said the president.


 The most remarkable idea of China to open up is the Belt and Road Initiative, as well as the CPEC, he said.


 "It (CPEC) is a major communication throughway which will improve our own economy. There are a number of projects along the CPEC road. There are a number of projects aside from the CPEC road within different cities. Gwadar port is being developed and the economy of Pakistan will also improve." 


 The president said the cooperation between Pakistan and China helped maintain peace in the region, adding that it also helped and will continue to help bring peace in Afghanistan.


 "I think we have to look forward. I think we have a bright future... It is for peace. The world should know that the People's Republic of China and Pakistan are working for world peace."


 Alvi believed that the future of Pakistan-China relations will keep on developing towards prosperity of the two peoples.

Enditem