Source: Daily Balochistan Express
Publisher: Asianet-Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Daily Balochistan Express, Quetta 
Publication Date: Oct 20, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: PM Imran inaugurates Hub power plant under CPEC

Snippet: Prime Minister Imran Khan inaugurated on Monday a 1,320 megawatt China Hub power plant, which is one of the primary projects of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor plan.

The prime minister also addressed a ceremony at the occasion, where he said that every kind of facility will be provided to assist the joint project.

Body: 
The prime minister said that the joint projects under the CPEC are a positive sign, adding that it is recommended that more coal is brought from Thar to be utilised for this power plant.

'There are 6,000 Pakistani workers associated with the project,' said the prime minister.

He further said that electricity is being produced from coal in Thar, adding that due to CPEC the country is progressing.

The prime minister said that Pakistan's biggest issue is corruption which kept people at bay from making any investments.

Sindh govt should resolve issues of Karachi: PM

PM Imran earlier arrived in Karachi for a day-long visit during which he held important meetings with different political representatives from Sindh.

During his visit, Prime Minister Imran Khan said that Sindh's economic condition deteriorated due to corruption, adding that it is the responsibility of the provincial government to resolve issues of Karachi.

The prime minister said that the centre is contributing in terms of resources as per its capacity.

The premier also met with Governor Sindh Imran Ismail, where he assured that the K4 plan will be completed at any cost.

Members of National Assembly and Sindh Assembly belonging to Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf, Muttahida Qaumi Movement and Grand Democratic Alliance also met with the prime minister.

The representatives and lawmakers apprised the prime minister about the issues of their constituencies and ongoing work.

Federal Minister for Parliamentary Affairs Azam Swati, Federal Minister for Planning Khusro Bakhtyar, Federal Minister for Water Resources Faisal Vawda, Special Assistant to the PM on Petroleum Nadeem Babar and former finance minister Asad Umar accompanying the PM.

The premier was briefed about ongoing development projects in the city funded by the federal government.