Source: Business Recorder
Publisher: Emmay Zed Publications (Private) Ltd
Byline: NAVEED BUTT 
Copyright: © 2019 Business Recorder. All Rights Reserved. 
Publication Date: Jul 17, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Huawei to invest $100 million

Snippet: Vice President of Chinese Huawei Group Mark Xueman has said that Huawei would invest $100 million in Pakistan this year and would also set up its regional headquarters at the cost of $ 55 million. "Pakistan is a strategic market and the company will invest around $100 million in the country this year.

Huawei will also set up a regional headquarters in Islamabad at the cost of $ 55 million that will create job opportunities for young engineers in Pakistan," Vice President of Huawei Group Mark Xueman said this in a statement after holding a meeting with Federal Minister for Planning, Development and Reform Makhdoom Khusro Bakhtiyar along with a delegation on Wednesday.

Body: 
The vice-president of Huawei said that Pakistan is a strategic market for China and the company will invest around $100 million in the country this year.

He further stated that Huawei will also invest $15 million more in its Technical support Centre in Pakistan and it will also hire more work force for the same taking the number of its staff from 600 to 800 this year. He stated that Huawei is eager to initiate more projects in Pakistan on grant funding from Chinese government.

Bakhtiyar, while appreciating Huawei's continued engagement in Pakistan, said that the leading technological company can support in developing and upgrading IT sector of Pakistan. He said that Huawei has 25% share in mobile industry of Pakistan and is also the top taxing paying Chinese company in the country. He appreciated Huawei's engagement with Higher Education Commission (HEC) for smart schools project with the latest information and communications technology equipment.

The minister underlined on exploring new business models for future projects and joint ventures in Pakistan. He said that Huawei can contribute to the government's e-governance initiative as well in centralising data to improve efficiency and productivity. He opined that Huawei can support IT start-up projects in Pakistan to benefit the youth in this important sector. The minister assured of the ministry's all possible cooperation in future joint ventures.