Source: Seychelles Nation
Publisher: Nation Publishing Services
Byline: 
Copyright: © National Information Services Agency 
Publication Date: Apr 03, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Pakistan breaks ground for China-funded New Gwadar Intl Airport

Snippet: Pakistan broke ground for the construction of the China-funded New Gwadar International Airport on Friday, which would link Pakistan`s rising southwestern port city of Gwadar with the rest of the world.

According to the Ministry of Planning, Development and Reform, the $230 million project, fully funded by the Chinese government under the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), will be completed in three years.

Body: 
The airport is located in the Gurandani area some 26 kilometers northeast of Gwadar city in Balochistan province.

The construction of the new airport will be managed by the China Airport Construction Group and will be capable of handling a combination of ATR 72, Airbus A-380, Boeing B-737 and Boeing B-747 aircraft for domestic and international routes.

Covering an area of 18 square kilometers, the new airport will be the second-largest airport in Pakistan.

At the groundbreaking ceremony, Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan praised the speedy and quality work by Chinese companies and individuals in Gwadar.

He said that he is looking forward to seeking cooperation from the Chinese government in a number of fields, including railways, agriculture and fishing.

Chinese Ambassador to Pakistan Yao Jing said that under CPEC and the Belt and Road Initiative, long-term friendship and cooperation between China and Pakistan has entered a new dimension.

Both sides have decided to usher in the new stage of economic expansion under CPEC with cooperation in industrialization and the social sector by introducing new projects, said Yao.

Yao added that the new airport is just the beginning of the new stage, and more projects will come soon.

The ambassador said that China firmly stands with Pakistan on the road toward development and stability, and the Chinese people are helping the Pakistani people achieve prosperity.

Chief Minister of Balochistan Jam Kamal Khan said that transportation infrastructure projects under CPEC in Balochistan will reduce travel time and increase economic activity for the local population by providing direct and quick access to main markets.

"The things are progressing, and people of my province are willing to have business-to-business cooperation with the Chinese," said the chief minister, vowing to provide maximum facilitation for investors who take advantage of the opportunities.

During the ceremony, the Chinese and Pakistani sides also signed memorandums of understanding regarding a vocational training institute and a friendship hospital.