Source: Pakistan Observer
Publisher: Pakistan Observer
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Observer 
Publication Date: Sep 08, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: CPHGC, HUBCO's major role overcoming power crisis in Pakistan

Snippet: China Power Hub Generation Company (CPHGC) and HUBCO Power Plant play major role in helping Pakistan getting rid of load-shedding crisis, reports China Economic Net quoting official sources.

Over the years, there has been a growing interest of Chinese government and the companies eradicating electricity's shortfall in the country.

Body: 
The projects were rapidly pushed forward under China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC). CPHGC was the first state-of-the-art and environment friendly unit. It has successfully been synchronized with the national grid and all tests required for commissioning of the first unit were completed on Aug 14, 2019.

The government had approved the processing of a 1,320MW imported coal-based power project at Hub in November 2014, when loadshedding was at its peak, while the joint venture of HUBCO and CPHGC was issued a letter of intent in June 2015.

Whereas, HUBCO produces over 2,920MW through its four plants spread over Balochistan, Punjab and Azad Jammu and Kashmir. The power generation capacity of the company will be enhanced to over 3,580MW once its three under-construction projects listed under CPEC - Thar Energy Limited (TEL), Thalnova Power Thar (Pvt) Ltd, and Sindh Engro Coal Mining Company SECMC) at Thar Block II - are completed.

The CPHGC and HUBCO power plant project was estimated to cost $2 billion. In August this year, the coal-fired power project under CPEC became commercially operational. The joint venture of the companies had made the announcement of starting the 1,320MW imported coal power plant saying the plant has the integrated jetty with coal transshipment capacity of 4.2 million tons per annum.

It was a pleasant surprise to note that the project was not only developed in record time as per schedule, but within the projected costs. Being labeled as an early harvest energy project under CPEC framework and being the source of reducing the population's difficulties and challenges, the CPHGC project is truly a project of national and strategic significance.

The plant will add 9 billion kWh of electricity to the national grid every year, meeting the electricity needs of four million households in the country and will provide massive relief to its beneficiaries who will no longer have to plan their daily routine as per the loadshedding schedule.

They will not be facing unannounced loadshedding and will not have to invest their hard-earned money in buying the alternative appliances, like UPS's and solar inverters to ensure uninterrupted supply of electricity.

The successful completion of the CPHGC project has fortified the dream of energy independence of Pakistan. Since the synchronization earlier in May, In addition to making vital contributions to meeting the power demand, the project has also delivered on various social commitments for improving the lives of the local community of Hub and Lasbella in Balochistan.

The CPHGC has set up a school in Gadani, a floating jetty for fishermen in Abbas Village, and conducted various training and development programs for the local youth of Balochistan.