Source: The Balochistan Times
Publisher: Asianet-Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 The Balochistan Times 
Publication Date: Jun 11, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,karch,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: CPEC to prove strong vehicle for socio-economic uplift: BEF President

Snippet: President, Baluchistan Economic Forum (BEF), Sardar Shoukat Popalzai said that China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) was a mutual benefit program for Pakistan and China, and after completion of 17,000 MW power projects at a cost of $ 34 billion, Pakistan will be able to meet its total energy requirement. This he stated in his lecture on CPEC and One Belt and One Road initiatives to MBA (Project) students of Mohammad Ali Jinnah University, (MAJU) Karachi, said a press release on Tuesday. Associate Dean, Business Administration and Social Sciences, Dr. Shujaat Mubarak and faculty member Ali Nasir were also present. Sardar Shoukat said that CPEC as a regional integrator with greater opportunity provided for underdeveloped provinces of Pakistan especially Baluchistan. He said that the impact of CPEC on Pakistan's economy may be seen in long run which will help Pakistan to become a transit state for the regional economic power.

Body: 
 He said that there were three major pipeline projects for Baluchistan.

With completion of all three pipeline projects, many opportunities will be created for the province particularly downstream industries, such as oil refinery, fertilizer plants, petrochemical, etc. He said that not only Pakistan but entire Central Asian countries will also be the beneficiary of this project. CPEC project will help us improve our infrastructure, provide new jobs opportunities to control unemployment problem. He said that there was a vast scope to further strengthen the economic relations of China and Pakistan with reference to the province of Baluchistan. China could help us in transfer of technology, direct investment, joint ventures in energy, fisheries, fruit processing, agro-food, tourism, livestock and mineral development, he said. He said the private sector of China could also provide technical expertise for Gwadar port and Gwadar city development. Meanwhile, MAJU Associate Dean, Dr. Shujaat Mubarak also spoke. He briefed the students on current monetary policy, its types, inflation rate, role of State Bank of Pakistan in regulating the country's economy and challenges being faced by the country presently.