Source: The Balochistan Times
Publisher: Asianet-Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 The Balochistan Times 
Publication Date: Apr 30, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,pakis,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: SU organises certificate award ceremony of three month Chinese language course

Snippet: The university of Sindh Jamshoro in collaboration with Hanban Confucius Institute of China on Tuesday organized certificate award ceremony of three months Chinese Language Course, offered by the Area Study Centre Far East and Southeast Asia, at Asean Seminar Hall of the centre.

The ceremony was chaired by the University of Sindh Vice Chancellor Prof. Dr. Fateh Mohammad Burfat who distributed the certificates among all the 28 learners and students of the first ever batch who have successfully completed the course.

Body: 
Those who were given away certificates included Prof. Dr. Saima Kamran, Dr. Zulfiqar Ali Qureshi, Dr. Mukesh Kumar, Dr. Naima Tabasam, Dr. Naureen Nazar Soomro, Mr. Ghulam Murtaza khoso, Mr. Ronaque Ali Behan, Mr. Majid Ali Noonari, Ms. Rubab, Ms. Shahnaz Fatima, Ms. Baby Benazir Rajar, Ms. Sabeen, Ms. Shazia Shahab, Mr. Shuja M. Jalaluddin, Ms. Madiha Kiran, Mr. Waqar Hussain, Mr. Ahsan Ali, Mr. Abdullah, Mr. Shahriyar Brohi, Mr. Ali Arsalan, Mr. Imran Ali Noonari, Ms. Marvi Paras Memon, Mr. Jawad Hassan, Mr. Abdul Qudoos, Mr. Karmoon Lal, Ms. Ujala Shah, Dr. Shazia Shaikh and Ms. Faiza Makhdoom.

Speaking on the occasion, the Vice Chancellor lauded the singing performances of singers in Chinese language and said that the Chinese language Course (CLC) offered by the SU's Area Study Centre was aimed at providing non-native speakers with especial focus on basic Chinese language in order to help them speak it.

He said that the significance of the Chinese language training course was to help the SU students and faculty to grab scholarship opportunities offered by the Chinese government after every six months for Pakistani students adding that it would help the language learners to better communicate with the Chinese while leaving for China to acquire higher education in different disciplines and areas.

He hoped to further deepen the cooperative relationship between the Confucius Institute of China and Sindh University Jamshoro so as to provide more opportunities of further study for the students of this varsity.

Dr. Burfat pointed out that with further deepening Confucius Institute-Sindh University cooperation, learning and using Chinese language would be necessary for the academic and administrative individuals of the Alma Mater.

He congratulated the learners on their achievements and expressed his expectation for the next phase of the Chinese courses, thanking the Confucius Institute for its efforts and initiatives in this regards.