Source: Daily Messenger
Publisher: Daily Messenger
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Daily Messenger 
Publication Date: Oct 24, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,pakis,hunan,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: New Chinese center named after Pakistani scientist setup

Snippet: The Hunan University of Chinese Medicine (HUCM) has established 'Academician Professor Atta-ur-Rahman One Belt and One Road TCM Research Center' at its main campus in Changsha, capital of Hunan province, Peoples Republic of China. The grand opening ceremony of the proposed center was held on Wednesday (24 October 2019), in HUCM, along with the 5th Annual Bio-TCM International Conference. A senior official of the International Center for Chemical and Biological Sciences (ICCBS), University of Karachi(UoK) said on Wednesday that the Federal Minister for Science and Technology Fawad Hussain Chaudhry, along with Chinese Government officials, Mayor of Huanhua, and Prof.

Body: 
Dr. Muhammad Iqbal Choudhary, Director of ICCBS - University of Karachi were present in the ceremony. "This center is indeed a humble recognition of Prof. Atta-ur-Rahman tremendous scientific contributions in the field of traditional medicine, and his leadership of developing scientific collaboration between the two countries," Wei Wang, Furong Distinguished Professor at Hunan University of Chinese Medicine, said. "It is also a celebration of the induction of Prof. Rahman in the highest honor of fellowship of Chinese Academy of Sciences," Wang pointed out. The HUCM is one of the largest public sector universities of China, recognized internationally for excellence and quality of research. The University also has a large number of foreign students, including 500 Pakistan scholars. Prof. Iqbal Choudhary, speaking on the occasion, said that this was indeed a historical occasion, as this is the only center in China named after a Pakistani scholar. This makes the research center a major milestone in the history of two countries, and certainly a befitting tribute to the life-long contributions of Prof. Atta-ur-Rahman in the field of science and technology, he maintained.