Source: IJ Global
Publisher: Euromoney Trading Limited
Byline: Alexandra Dockreay 
Copyright: © Copyright 2019 Euromoney Institutional Investor plc. www.ijonline.com 
Publication Date: Jun 09, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: UPDATE: Thar Block II coal mine phase II expansion nears close

Snippet: Updated to include:

* lenders' legal adviser

Body: 
An expansion to double production capacity at the Thar Block II lignite coal mine in Pakistan required additional debt and equity, with the financing documents due to sign later in June or July (2019), IJGlobal can reveal.

The production capacity at the mine is due to double from 3.8 million tonnes per year, to 7.6 million tonnes per year with this project.

The mine's original financing closed in 2015 and featured mostly debt from Pakistani banks with some debt from Chinese banks.

The Government of Sindh owns 51% of the mine project SPV Sindh Engro Coal Mining Company (SECMC). Engro Energy is also shareholder, as well as Habib Bank, Thal, Hub Power Company and China Machinery Engineering Corporation (CMEC).

In the restructuring to finance the mine expansion, the private sponsor company is investing a further $25 million of equity roughly and the project company is raising a new standby debt facility of around $20 million from Pakistani lenders. Also one of the Chinese lenders - ICBC - is providing a $90 million facility in US dollars which will replace that amount of existing Pakistani rupee debt.

Advisers on the restructuring include:

* Linklaters (Beijing) - legal

* Pinsent Masons - lenders' legal

China Machinery Engineering Corporation (CMEC) is a contractor.

The original financing for the first stage of the coal mine was roughly:

* $200 million from Chinese banks - China Development Bank, ICBC and China Construction Bank

* $700 million of Pakistan Rupee debt from a club of banks led by Habib Bank (partially Islamic debt facilities)

The tenor is around 12-years plus construction.

The Thar Block II coal mine and associated power projects form part of the China Pakistan Economic Corridor.

The Thar Block II mine feeds various coal-fired power plant projects in Thar Block II. The first phase of the mine powers the first phase Thar Block II Power Plant with 660MW capacity. This power plant has started generating and should be commissioned in June 2019.

A second phase featuring two power plants will be fed by the second phase of the Thar Block II Coal Mine under 30-year coal supply agreements. Financing for the two second phase power plants signed, in December 2018 for Thar Energy Limited (TEL)'s project, and then in Q2 2019 for ThalNova Power Thar's project.