Source: The News International
Publisher: The News International, Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019 The News International 
Publication Date: Feb 20, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,karch,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: China ready to support Karachi's waste disposal work

Snippet: The Chinese government is willing to support Karachi to ensure cleanliness and better sanitation in the city, for which it will provide the resources wherever they are required.

The Consul General of China in Karachi Wang Yu said this on Wednesday at the Sindh Governor House, where a ceremony was held to hand over a garbage tractor and loading bike for the waste disposal work in UC-15 of the PS-129 constituency.

Body: 
Governor Imran Ismail said that Pakistan and China's relations span several decades, and these ties are not just maintained at the level of government but also through people-to-people contact.

He said the bilateral relations have been getting stronger with the passage of time, adding that the people of Pakistan give value to the support that China always provides their country during its testing times.

Ismail said the ceremony was also the embodiment of the exemplary relations between the two countries. He expressed gratitude to the Chinese Consulate General in Karachi for offering more equipment for waste disposal work in the city.

Accountability

Responding to a question, the governor said that the National Accountability Bureau (NAB) has been tasked with sweeping up the litter of corruption spread across the country. He said that NAB has been working independently, which is why under its accountability drive it recently arrested a sitting senior minister of the Punjab government.

People should see how the drive of accountability across the country is being carried out on the most impartial basis against the government, the opposition and the bureaucracy alike, he added.

Ismail said the government has never interfered with the process of accountability in the country. Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf lawmakers Haleem Adil Sheikh, Dr Imran Ali Shah and Adeel Ahmed, and Citizens-Police Liaison Committee chief Zubair Habib were also present on the occasion.