Source: The Balochistan Times
Publisher: Asianet-Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 The Balochistan Times 
Publication Date: Apr 24, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: 70% work on Suki Kinari Hydropower project completed

Snippet: About 70 percent work on the 870 MW Suki Kinari Hydropower Project (SKHPP) being executed under China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), has been completed.

It is the largest hydro independent power producer in Pakistan, expected to generate 3,081 GWh million units per year, said document shared by Chinese embassy.

Body: 
The project is expected to increase power generation capacity by more than five percent. The Khyber Pakhtunkhwa government will earn approximately Rs1.5 billion per year water use in the form of royalty.

As per the document, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province will receive additional 113MW electricity in its share after completion.

Suki Kinari (SK), a run-of-the-river largest private sector hydropower project located on Kunhar River in the Kaghan Valley of District Mansehra, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. The project poses minimal environmental and social impact because it is a run of the river project.

It is considered as one of the most cost-effective hydropower schemes in the region due to its high design head of 900 meters and relatively short intake structure crest.

The Kunhar river originates and traverses through the whole length in Pakistani territory which ensures 100 percent un-interrupted flow through project life. The project will generate maximum power for up to four hours daily.

This project is being supported and closely monitored by the governments of Pakistan and China due to its importance. Chinese company 'China Gezgouba Group Corporation' initiated work on Suki Kinari Hydropower Project.

The project is being built on a "Build-Own-Operate and Transfer" basis in accordance with Government of Pakistan's Policy for Power Generation Projects 2002.

Total operational life of the project is 100 years and the company will hand over the Suki Kinari hydropower project to the Government of Pakistan after 30 years. During this period, the company will be responsible for its maintenance and other expenditures.

The potential for energy generation from Kunhar River was first identified around 1960. In 1959, Charles T Main US consultants were engaged by WAPDA to study this potential. In January 1960, they issued a report entitled 'Kunhar River Project-Kaghan Valley.'

Further studies were conducted in 1984 and 1995 to optimize the power potential of Kunhar River. These studies identified a series of potential sites along with the river from where the energy could be produced by cascading the water energy through run-of-the-river hydro projects.

Studies suggested potential sites for these projects at Batakundi, Naran, Suki Kinari, Balakot and Patrind. Run-of-the-river project envisages that the water is drawn from

the river, taken to the turbines in a powerhouse, located downstream through tunnel and after running the turbines and producing energy, the water is again diverted back to the river.

This water is now again available to be used to produce energy through yet another similar set up downstream. This is called cascading. Unfortunately no worthwhile efforts were made in the past on these hydro projects for producing electricity at affordable rates.