Source: Kuwait News Agency (Kuna)
Publisher: Kuwait News Agency
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 All Kuna Rights are Reserved. Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company 
Publication Date: Oct 07, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,pakis,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Pakistani premier invites Chinese companies

Snippet: <figure><figcaption></figcaption></figure> ISLAMABAD, Oct 8 (KUNA) -- Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan invited on Tuesday Chinese companies to invest in the diverse sectors of Pakistan during his visit to China.

While speaking at China Council for Promotion of International Trade in Beijing, the premier invited Chinese companies to invest in diverse sectors including housing, textile, manufacturing, IT and financial services, physical and technological logistics, agriculture, oil and gas and tourism and hospitality.

Body: 
Khan said that Pakistan is opening up for the businesses and it is great time for the Chinese companies to invest in the country.

He assured that the Prime Minister office will be dealing with all the major investments including those of the mega project China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC).

The premier said that we have also established CPEC authority to resolve all the problems coming in the way of the implementation of corridor related projects.

PM Khan said Pakistan is encouraging the businesses to make big profits as the wealth creation will enable us to lift the people out of poverty on the pattern of China.

He said the second phase of CPEC will focus on industrial and agriculture cooperation, adding that we want to learn from the experiences of China to enhance the productivity of our agriculture sector.

He told the audience that Pakistan is one of the safest places for investment in the world.

We have established a special security force for the protection of Chinese workers, he informed.

He also appreciated Chinese President Xi Jinping's campaign against the corruption.

Earlier, PM Khan arrived in Beijing on Tuesday for an official two-day visit to China at the invitation of premier Li Keqiang.

According to a Foreign Office (FO) press release, the premier was received by China's culture minister Luo Shugang, Chinese Ambassador to Pakistan Yao Jing and Pakistan's ambassador to China Naghmana Hashmi.

The prime minister is accompanied by Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi, Minister for Planning, Development and Reform Khusro Bakhtiar and Chairman Board of Investment Zubair Gillani. (end) sbk.mb