Source: The Balochistan Times
Publisher: Asianet-Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 The Balochistan Times 
Publication Date: Mar 06, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: National Men and Women Throw Ball Championship from March 19: Arshad Hussain

Snippet: National Men and Women Throw Ball Championship will be organized with the collaboration of District Govt and Directorate of Sports Khyber Pakhtunkhwa here at indoor hall of the Sahibzada Abdul Qayyum Auditorium University of Peshawar Campus from March 19, 2019.

This was stated by Secretary KP Throw Ball Association Arshad Hussain while addressing a press conference here at local hotel on Wednesday. Regional Sports Officer Jamshed Baloch, Member Sports and Culture Committee District Govt Waseem Akram were also present.

Body: 
Arshad Hussain lauded Nazim Peshawar Mohammad Asim Khan and Director General Sports KP Junaid Khan for extending all out financial support in holding for the first time Throw Ball Men and Women Championships in Peshawar. He said Throw Ball is newly introduced Games of Malaysia in Pakistan and it would for the first time that Peshawar is hosting both male and female Championships.

He said along with the National Championship, a fresher course will also be organized in order to provide much updates rules and regulations to the referees and coaches associated with this Game in Pakistan.

Arshad Hussain disclosed that referees and coaches course will be part of the Championships and Pakistan Throw Ball Federation has already directed all the referees and coaches to attend. He said a total of 15 teams comprising Punjab, Sindh, Balochistan, Islamabad, Gilgit-Baltistan, team of merger tribal districts, Police, Rangers, City School Bajria, City School Lahore and City School Karachi, Agha Khan Youth Board, and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa will be taking part in the Championship.

He said all arrangements in this connection have been given final touches as the teams, officials, referees and coaches would be provided accommodations.

Arshad Hussain said that Nazim Peshawar Mohammad Asim Khan will grace the occasion as chief guest at the opening ceremony. Vice Chancellor University of Peshawar Professor Dr. Mohammad Asif Khan, Director General Sports University of Peshawar Bahre Karam will also be invited for the opening ceremony.

China Power Hub Generation Company, Saindak Project donated for flood victims

QUETTA: Deputy Commissioner Lasbela Shabir Ahmed Mangal on Wednesday said measures were being continued to ensure provision of better facilities including rehabilitation and compensation of flood victims in the district.

He expressed this while talking to CSR Manager of China Power Hub Generation Company (CPHGC), Atif and Saindak Project's MCC Resources Development Limited (MRDL)'s Deputy Director Masood Hussain when both officials, on behalf of their departments, handed over laden trucks of donations of goods to DC Shabir Ahmed Mengal for flood victims.

The DC said that ongoing relief operations were being scrutinized in various established camps of flood victims in supervision of Assistant Commissioner Bela Jameel Ahmed Baloch and officials of Provincial Disaster Management Authority (PDMA).

'Surveys are being continued under formed teams in different flood hit areas including Adora, Orgai, Lahkara, Retalara, Gadri and others in order to rehabilitate affected areas according to reports of surveys for better way', he said,

Shabir Ahmed said the directives had been issued to officials of agriculture and livestock departments to conduct surveys to estimate regarding losses of agriculture and livestock's in flood stricken areas, so that compensations would provide cultivators in positive way.

He appreciated the teams including Pakistan Army, administration, PDMA, rescue and other non-governmental organizations who were busy in better help of the victims through maintaining cooperation with them in camps.

The DC lauded efforts of China Power Hub Generation Project's official Major Atif and Deputy Director of Sandak Project Masood Hussain for donation goods for the victims. The PDMA would distribute these goods among flood victims, he said.

Both officials also praised the DC, rescue teams including Pakistan Army and said they had saved precious lives of people after hectic efforts who had submerged in flood water, adding such donation processes would be continued for supporting of needy people from their departments.