Source: Pakistan Observer
Publisher: Pakistan Observer
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Observer 
Publication Date: Oct 22, 2019

Region Codes: ,punjab,india,china,laho,pakis,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Huawei join hands to turbo-charge entrepreneurship ecosystem in Punjab

Snippet: The government of Punjab and Chinese giant Huawei came together for gearing up and turbo-charge entrepreneurship ecosystem in the province. For this expedient purpose a regular series of training workshops with Corvette Institute in Lahore are designed for the professional training of start-ups.

Punjab Board of Investment and Trade (PBIT) and internationally acclaimed Chinese technology company Huawei join hands in initiative launch ceremony for sponsoring and arranging intense training sessions for start-up entrepreneurs in Punjab.

Body: 
CEO, PBIT Jahanzeb Burana said in his welcome remarks that this initiative has been carefully designed to hone our youth into the brightest entrepreneur minds in the region. Relevant skills with real-world applicability are the end product of this programme, and we fully expect these new professionals to go on to contribute significantly to the progress of Pakistan.

Provincial Minister Muhammad Mohsin Leghari, while addressing the participants, said that this initiative will make our young generation able to make their careers in various fields which were previously inaccessible to them without basic skills.

'The young entrepreneurs will be given technical and vocational training in world leading technologies through incubation initiative which will also boost potential of Pakistani youth in reaching global forums to exploit their talent and expertise,' provincial minister added.

Chinese Consul General Long Ding Bin said in his address that Pakistan's entrepreneurship ecosystem is catching up pace with its neighbours. The new government in Pakistan is showing signs of building the necessary institutional foundations and addressing start-up training and SME funding gaps.

Deputy CEO Huawei Pakistan Ahmad Masood said on this occasion that in its ambitious long-term vision, Huawei places specific emphasis on start-ups and SME sector. The training will make Pakistani young generation able to make their careers in various fields which were previously inaccessible to them without basic skills, he further said.

Advisor to Chief Minister Dr. Salman Shah said in his speech that this programme will yield young skilled labour trained on modern trends in line with latest developments. He said that adding that this will help maintain sustainable national economic growth.

This initiative aims to provide a long-term and sustainable platform for the entrepreneurs in the region for learning and influencing their businesses in future.

The training session will be helpful in providing the start ups with exclusively designed four module packages covering the Business Development, Project Management, Concept of Information Technology (ICT) and Artificial intelligence (AI) that will have impact on the entire startup ecosystem. The proposed training programs will be conducted in a quarterly series and will benefit 12 trainees from a maximum of 6 startup in every quarter.'