Source: The Nation
Publisher: News Bites Pty Ltd
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 Asianet-Pakistan 
Publication Date: Sep 22, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,pakis,chinaz,apacz,asiaz,bric,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: PCI celebrates 10th founding day, China's anniversary

Snippet: Pakistan-China Institute celebrated its 10th founding day along with 70th anniversary of the People's Republic of China with a colourful ceremony here on Sunday. This was the first of several events planned in the coming week in the capital marking China's National Day. Chinese Ambassador Yao Jing graced the ceremony as chief guest. The event hosted various segments of society including parliamentarians, ministers, senior bureaucrats and business leaders, media, civil society, art groups, students and scholars. Deputy Speaker National Assembly Qasim Suri, Senate Leader of the House Shibli Faraz, Senate Leader of Opposition Raja Zafar-ul-Haq, Chairman Kashmir Committee Syed Fakhar Imam, Senator Rehman Malik and renowned journalist Saleem Safi addressed the ceremony.

Body: 
 Executive Director of Pakistan-China Institute Mustafa Hyder Sayed, in his opening remarks, highlighted key aspects of Pakistan-China Institute's decade old journey as Pakistan's principal non-governmental platform to promote people-to-people ties between Pakistan and China. He termed China's poverty alleviation model as success story for Pakistan and others to emulate. Senator Raja Zafar-ul-Haq congratulated Pakistan-China Institute and its Chairman Senator Mushahid Hussain and said that October 1st has great significance for people of China, and it is equally important for Pakistan-China Institute which is completing 10 years of bringing the two nations even closer. Senator Shibli Faraz on this occasion said that Pakistan-China Institute had always done such a rigorous work and Chairman Mushahid Hussain had been a great bridge between political leadership of the two states and promoting diplomatic ties. Speaking on the occasion, Syed Fakhar Imam termed Deng Xiaoping's economic reforms a game changer for China and an example for Pakistan to follow. Senior Journalist Saleem Safi said that Pakistani politicians needed to learn from the futuristic vision of Mushahid Hussain Sayed, and Pakistan needs to learn from China's policy of patience and persistence in focusing on economic development. CPEC is a blessing for Pakistan and we need to adopt Chinese model of development in Balochistan and other under developed areas, he added. Acting Speaker of the National Assembly Qasim Suri said that China-Pakistan bond is unmatched in inter-state relations. He said that Beijing's support over Kashmir's annexation by India has added new strength to Pakistan-China friendship. Chinese Ambassador Yao Jing said, 'China is celebrating its 70th Anniversary of its Foundation but we are also observing seventh decade of Pakistan-China friendship. China is indebted to Pakistan support as China learnt from the Pakistani economic model in the 1960s'.Ambassador Yao Jing while commending the efforts of Chairman PCI, Senator Mushahid Hussain, called him the 'most famous face in China and a strong advocate of Sino-Pak Relations'.

Chairman Senator Mushahid Hussain said that Ambassador Yao Jing was a major reason for success of CPEC, given his dedication and hard work. 'Chinese leaders have a futuristic approach and they plan ahead of others. Quaid-e-Azam has told an American journalist in 1948 that 'Pakistan would be the world's pivot and the world would look towards Pakistan'. He said Chairman Mao Zedong told China's ambassador to Pakistan in 1959 'look after Pakistan as Pakistan would be China's window to the world'.

Lauding China's peaceful rise, he said 'For last 40 years, China has not fought a war and none of its soldiers are on foreign soil. Chinese resilience and continuity of policy are a model for the world and the world needs to learn from China'.

The function concluded with a Cake Cutting ceremony marking 70 Year Anniversary of People's Republic of China and 10 Year Anniversary of Pakistan-China Institute followed by a Cultural Performance by students of Confucius Institute, Islamabad.