Source: The News International
Publisher: The News International, Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019 The News International 
Publication Date: Apr 09, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,pakis,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Sino-Pak academia-research ties to be strengthened: Chinese envoy By our correspondent

Snippet: Chinese Ambassador to Pakistan Yao Jing Tuesday said that Pakistan-China academia- research cooperation especially in the field of agriculture will be further strengthened for development and prosperity.

During his visit to University of Agriculture Faisalabad, he performed the groundbreaking ceremony of modern Confucius Institute and addressed the ongoing entomological congress. Agriculture is the foundation of national economy, he said adding 40 years ago when they opened their reforms they started with agriculture and now they are feeding the largest population of 1.4 billion people. Framework of agreement on agriculture will be finalised during the coming visit of Prime Minister of Pakistan to China. The working groups in this regard have also been constituted. He said still we have a lot of space to expand our agricultural ties.

Body: 
Discussing ongoing and future projects, he said that agriculture display centre may be set up at the university for technological transfer and welfare of rural population. He said that they would increase scholarship cooperation, and students exchange for the university. He lauded the measures being taken by UAF for development and prosperity of the country.

On the occasion, MoUs of University of Agriculture Faisalabad (UAF) with Institute of Plant Protection And Soil Science, Hubei Academy of Agricultural Sciences, China and another one MoU with Zhejiang University were signed to collaborate in the area of academia and research.

UAF Vice-Chancellor Dr Zafar Iqbal Randhawa said that the university had been enjoying excellent ties with China and had inked more than 30 MoUs with Chinese universities and agriculture institutes. He said that strengthening the ties would help us to fight the common challenges in the agriculture sector. He suggested that China could establish vocational and skill development institute at the UAF that would help to get polished technicians and laboratory staff.

MNA and Parliamentary Secretary for Railways Farrukh Habib said that China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) and One Belt One Road (OBOR) were hallmark steps that would bring about a revolution in the region. He said the PTI government had been putting special attention on the agriculture.

UAF Dean Faculty of Agriculture Dr Muhammad Aslam said Pakistan was exporting agricultural produces worth billions of rupees.

Confucius Institute Vice-Chairman Dr Ashfaq Chattha said that the university had produced hundreds of students in the Chinese languages under CI.

Chinese Consul General (CCG) in Lahore Long Dingbin, Chairman Entomology Dr Mansoor-ul-Hassan Sahi, Dr Waseem Akram, Dr Abid Ali, Dr Waqas Wakeel and other notables also spoke.