Source: Saudi Press Agency
Publisher: Saudi Press Agency
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 Saudi Press Agency. All Rights Reserved. Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company 
Publication Date: May 12, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Port city to house new modernly equipped airport

Snippet: The spadework for construction of new Gwadar airport measuring 4300 acres and costing $246 million has been completed. Chinese and Pakistani officials are in process to sort out modalities to initiate construction. Senate on Friday was informed that Gwadar International Airport will be a modern airport with the facility of night navigation.

Minister for Aviation Ghulam Sarwar Khan during the question hour told the house that China has agreed to provide over thirty-five billion rupees for construction of the New Gwadar International Airport project.

Body: 
Unlike other projects under the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) are operating under concessional loans, the Airport is planned under a Chinese grant. He said construction work on the airport is expected to begin by June this year and it will be completed in three years.

The new Gwadar International Airport will be the second facility in Pakistan to cater to big aircraft, including the worlds largest passenger airliner, the Airbus A380.

Senate Proceedings

Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs Ali Muhammad Khan, responding to a question regarding Pak-Afghan trade relations, said Pakistan has always taken steps to create a peaceful environment so that trade may flourish between the two countries. He said Pakistan has recently gifted Muhammad Ali Jinnah hospital in Afghanistan worth of twenty-four million dollars as good-will gesture.

Minister of State told the house that exports to Afghanistan in the year 2016-17 was 1299 million dollars and it has increased to 1301 million dollars in 2018-19. Participating in the debate, the opposition members criticized the governments policies saying these have contributed to price hike in the country.

Those who participated in the discussion include; Sherry Rehman, Javed Abbasi, Abdul Ghafoor Haideri and Raza Rabbani. Responding to a point raised by Raza Rabbani, Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Azam Khan Swati said Pakistan Steel Mills is not being privatized. He said under Public Private Partnership, the steel mills will be taken towards improvement. The House will now meet on Monday at 11 in the morning.All Rights Reversed for Saudi Press Agency Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc. (Syndigate.info