Source: Pakistan Observer
Publisher: Pakistan Observer
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Observer 
Publication Date: May 05, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,pakis,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Chinese embassy opens Visa Centre in Islamabad

Snippet: The Chinese Embassy in Pakistan will entrust Chinese Visa Application Service Center in Islamabad (Visa Center) to offer visa and attestation facilitation services from Monday. Its purpose is to further facilitate people to people exchanges between China and Pakistan and provide applicants with more comfortable environment and more efficient services,

The Visa Centre is responsible for handling various consular documents and applications, including ordinary visas, attestation, Hong Kong SAR and Macao SAR visa applications, biometric information collection and collection of attestation fees on behalf of the Chinese Embassy (including express and urgent fees), passport/visa collection and answering applicants' questions among other services, in line with the requirements of the Chinese Embassy.

Body: 
The relevant details are hereby notified as follows: The Visa Center will be on trial operation from May 06 to May 10, 2019. During this period, applicants with ordinary passports can submit their applications to the Visa Center or the Chinese Embassy. If you apply for the Chinese visa at the Visa Center, you need to go to the Visa Center's website, fill in the application form and make an appointment.

The Visa Center will be officially opened on May 13, 2019. After May 13, 2019, the Chinese Embassy will no longer accept ordinary visa, attestation, Hong Kong SAR and Macao SAR visa applications. Applicants will have to submit the above-mentioned applications through the Visa Center.

The address of the Visa Center is as follows: Gerry's Building, Adjacent to Punjab Cash and Carry, Park Road, Chatta Bakhtawar, Chak Shahzad, Islamabad Email: islamabadcenter@visaforchina.org Website: www.visaforchina.org

Business timing: 09:00-16:00 from Monday to Friday (holidays would be announced separately) Those applicants who hold diplomatic or official passports, or who apply for Chinese diplomatic, official, courtesy or talent visas, may submit their applications directly to the Chinese Embassy after filling up application form online and making an appointment at the Chinese Embassy website.

The Chinese Embassy will continue to accept applications such as notarization, passport and travel permit applications. The business hours at the Chinese Embassy for submitting and collecting these cases will be from 08:30 to 12:00 (holidays will be announced separately). For details, please consult the Consular Section of the Chinese Embassy website. According to the arrangement of reciprocal exemption of visa fees, the Chinese Embassy does not charge consular fees for visa from Pakistani citizens. The Visa Center will charge consular fees for attestation fees including urgent fees payable to the Chinese Embassy.