Source: The News International
Publisher: The News International, Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019 The News International 
Publication Date: Apr 04, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,islama,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Health arrangements at Islamabad Airport reviewed

Snippet: The vaccination status of all intending pilgrims, particularly with regard to protection against poliomyelitis and meningitis will strictly be checked at the Islamabad International Airport before departure, and they will be revaccinated for polio at the airport to as a second line of defence against cross-border transmission of the virus. Medical cover will be provided to all outgoing pilgrims at airports.

Minister for National Health Services Aamer Mehmood Kiani made this announcement Thursday during a visit to Islamabad International Airport, where he reviewed and examined the pre-departure arrangements put in place by the Airport Health Authorities to prevent cross-border transmission of diseases. He said, a robust strategy has been designed to halt cross-border disease transmission, for which health facilities at airports are being upgraded.

Body: 
'We are working to strengthen the Directorate of Central Health Establishment at all points of entry, especially airports. Steps have been taken by Ministry of National Health Services for improvement in infrastructures, IT, and uniforms etc. in health departments at all international borders. Moreover, thermal scanners have been operationalized at Islamabad, Peshawar, Lahore and Karachi airports and the same will be installed at all point of entries in the near future,' Aamer stated while talking to the media. He also announced availability of quarantine and isolation facilities on all airports.

The media was informed of a website that has been designed to educate passengers about various health-related problems related to international travel. Aamer said, the website will soon be launched. Only recently, Pakistan has signed a MoU with China to control cross-border disease transmission. The government of China will help establish health facilities at Gwadar, Karachi, Islamabad and Sost borders. This MOU is of vital importance in the preview of CPEC.

Aamer said, rudimentary and under-utilized posts have been re-shuffled at all points of entry and recruitments against these posts are underway.