Source: Investment Weekly News
Publisher: NewsRX, LLC
Byline: 
Copyright: © Copyright 2019 Investment Weekly News via VerticalNews.com 
Publication Date: Dec 26, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,usa,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,namz,sasiaz,

Title: Finance; New Finance Findings Has Been Reported by Investigators at Capital University of Science & Technology (Linkages between crude oil and emerging Asian stock markets: New evidence from the Chinese stock market crash)

Snippet: 2020 JAN 4 (VerticalNews) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at Investment Weekly News -- Investigators discuss new findings in Finance. According to news originating from Islamabad, Pakistan, by VerticalNews correspondents, research stated, "This study examines returns and volatility spillover between crude oil and emerging Asian stock markets during the Chinese stock market crash of 2015. The empirical findings reveal a positive causal effect from crude oil price changes to the majority stock markets."

Our news journalists obtained a quote from the research from the Capital University of Science & Technology, "Volatility is transmitted from oil to the Indian and Korean stock markets. The weights of oil assets in oil-stock portfolios decrease during the Chinese market crash compared to the full sample and the US financial crisis."

Body: 
According to the news editors, the research concluded: "Lastly, less oil assets are required to minimize portfolio risk in the Chinese crisis than in the full sample or US crisis."

For more information on this research see: Linkages between crude oil and emerging Asian stock markets: New evidence from the Chinese stock market crash. Finance Research Letters, 2019;31():207-217. Finance Research Letters can be contacted at: Academic Press Inc Elsevier Science, 525 B St, Ste 1900, San Diego, CA 92101-4495, USA. (Elsevier - www.elsevier.com; Finance Research Letters - www.journals.elsevier.com/finance-research-letters/)

The news correspondents report that additional information may be obtained from I. Yousaf, Capital University of Science & Technology, Dept. of Management Sciences, Islamabad, Pakistan.

Keywords for this news article include: Islamabad, Pakistan, Asia, Asia, Asian Stock, China, Economics, Finance and Investment, Investment and Finance, Capital University of Science & Technology.

Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world. Copyright 2020, NewsRx LLC