Source: Daily Balochistan Express
Publisher: Asianet-Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Daily Balochistan Express, Quetta 
Publication Date: Jul 22, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: China to assist Balochistan govt to improve agriculture sector

Snippet: The Chinese Government has shown interest to assist Balochistan Government to improve its agriculture sector by imparting training to farmers regarding latest technology, proper usage of seeds, irrigation and capacity building. In this connection, Deputy Chief of the Mission of Chinese Embassy in Islamabad Mr. Lijian Zaho called on Balochistan Agriculture Minister Engineer Zamrak Khan Achakzai.

In the meeting, both sides discussed in detail the importance and improvement of agri- sector of Balochistan, Chinese cooperation in capacity building of farmers, awareness about better use of latest technology, augmentation of yield production and investment in agri-sector.

Body: 
Balochistan Agriculture Minister welcomed Chinese envoy in Balochistan and said that besides other sectors Balochistan enjoyed great potential of investment in agriculture and there were huge opportunities of profitable investment. He said that agriculture played to crucial role in the economy of the province as approximately 80 percent people were linked with this sector, therefore, provincial government was taking steps for the promotion of agriculture, providing training to farmers, expending on researches despite lack of resources with the province.

On the occasion, Chinese Deputy Chief of the Mission said that under China Pakistan Economic Corridor the second phase of investment would be on many other sectors including that of agriculture. He assured that China would assist Balochistan government for durable development of its agri- sector and assured to provide capacity building training to farmers of Balochistan besides assisting them in yield production, proper utilization of latest technology. He also assured that to divert Chinese investors to invest in agri- sector of Balochistan.

Upon which, Provincial Minister thanked Chinese diplomat for showing interest in the development of agri- sector and making commitment of providing training to farmers. He assured Chinese envoy that Government of Balochistan would fully cooperate with Chinese investors and provide them all necessary facilities.-