Source: Daily Messenger
Publisher: Daily Messenger
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Daily Messenger 
Publication Date: Aug 05, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,moroc,africaz,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,medz,nafrz,sasiaz,

Title: H.E. Mohamed Karmoune opens trading day at PSX

Snippet: TheAmbassador of the Kingdom of Morocco, H.E. Mohamed Karmoune, along with Mr. Ishtiaq Baig, Hon. Consul General and Dr. Mirza Ikhtiar Baig visited the Pakistan Stock Exchange to open the PSX trading session with the gong ceremony. Acting Managing Director Mr. Rafique Umer, along with other Board Members, Mr. Ahmed Chinoy, Mr. Muhammad Ashraf Bawany, Mr. Mohammad Salahuddin Manzoor and senior management of PSX welcomed and received the distinguished guests and led them to the Auditorium for the ceremony. Welcoming the guests, the PSX team apprised H.E.

Mohamed Karmoune and his team about the role of Pakistan Stock Exchange (PSX) in developing the capital market and the macro- economic activities impact on the Capital Market. Opening the trading day with the gong ceremony, the Ambassador of the Kingdom of Morocco thanked the PSX Board and management for inviting him for the ceremony. Speaking to the media, the H.E. said that 'Pakistan is deep in the hearts of Moroccans'.

Body: 
While talking about Morocco-Pakistan relations, he stated that these have traditionally been strong and cordial. Dr. Mirza Ikhtiar Baig highlighted that Pakistan's largest phosphoric production import is coming from Morocco, which is an integral part of agriculture and fertilizers. After holding the gong ceremony, discussions took place between the PSX team and the Ambassador of the Kingdom of Morocco and his associates to discuss business opportunities and potential for bilateral trade. In the meeting, matters relating to Pakistan's economy, Investment environment and Capital market were discussed. Mr. Rafique Umer provided an overview of the PSX history since its establishment followed by integration of three stock exchanges to bring a single stock exchange of the country, demutualization, strategic investment of the Chinese consortium and listing of the Exchange.

Mr. Ashraf Bawany expanded upon the shareholding structure of PSX, comprising of Chinese consortium, local shareholders including the individuals and foreign investors. Mr. Ahmed Chinoy explained the distinguished guests that PSX currently has 544 listed companies with a market cap of PKR 6.34 trillion. On a query, he said that the consequence of increased discount rate will hamper market activity in a short run, however, considering lowest rates of securities, capital gains potential is the advantage that lures investors towards PSX.