Source: Frontier Star
Publisher: Frontier Star Publisher
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 Asianet-Pakistan 
Publication Date: Feb 02, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Establishment of Rashakai Special Economic Zone to be made possible on priority basis: CM KP

Snippet: Chief Minister (CM) Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KPK) Mahmood Khan Saturday said that establishment of Rashakai Special Economic Zone will be made possible on priority basis.

He directed legal aspects should be examined for the early completion of Rashakai special economic zone, so as to present it in the next cabinet meeting for further decision.

Body: 
Mahmood Khan said that provision of all facilities to Foreign Investors especially Chinese investors would be provided on priority basis.

He directed that the concerned departments should hold a meeting with the Finance Minister for future strategy in this regard for further concrete decisions in the next cabinet meeting.

This he said while presiding over a meeting regarding to discuss model being with CRBC for Rashakai special economic zone at Chief Minister Secretariat Peshawar.

Advisor to CM on Industries and Commerce Abdul Karim Torghar, SSU Head Sahibzada Saeed, Chief Executive KP EZDMC, concerned administrative secretaries and others attended the meeting.

The CM said that all possible support and facilities would be provided to Chinese investors for economic activities in the Province.

He said that with the completion Rashakai special economic zone the economy will boost and also provide jobs in the province.

He directed that the concerned departments should coordinate with each other and play their positive role for the early completion of Rashakai special economic zone.

The Chief Minister directed that keeping all legal and codal aspects of the project in mind a complete strategy should be presented to him regarding the early completion of RSEZ and other matters with CRBC.

He said that the strategy would be presented in the next cabinet meeting for concrete decisions.

The CM said that the provincial government will leave no stone unturned for economic stability of the province.

Establishment of industrial zones in other districts of the province is also the priority of provincial government.

Mahmood Khan said that the provincial government is trying to establish a network of industrial zones in the province for the economic stability and self-reliance of the province so that the local communities could get jobs and other business facilities.