Source: Frontier Star
Publisher: Frontier Star Publisher
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 Asianet-Pakistan 
Publication Date: Apr 02, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: China appreciates Pakistan's efforts to accelerate CPEC projects

Snippet: Chinese Ambassador Yao Jing has appreciated Pakistan's efforts to accelerate China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) projects particularly the groundbreaking of western route.

He said this while meeting Minister for Planning, Development and Reform Makhdum Khusro Bakhtyar in Islamabad on Tuesday.

Body: 
The Minister hailed China's support in implementation of Gwadar Airport project and said that the present Government attaches top priority to the development of Gwadar.

He said Prime Minister Imran Khan, in his recent visit to Balochistan, besides performing ground breaking of the 65 billion rupees Zhob-Kuchlak section of western route, also approved 17 billion rupees project of transmission line for Makran coast, 23 billion rupees new Gwadar Airport project, hospital as well as vocational institute.

The Minister said implementation of 300-MW energy project in Gwadar will be aligned with the development of Gwadar.

He said that CPEC has gained momentum and efforts would be made to continue the same pace in future.

He stated that first special Economic Zone at Rashakai will be launched soon in order to enter into the implementation stage of Pak-China Industrial Cooperation.

Khusro Bakhtyar further said that cooperation will be further strengthened by formal framework agreement focusing on joint ventures.

Emphasizing on the need for robust cooperation between the business communities of the two countries, he said we should move towards Pak-China Business Forum with representatives from leading companies of the two countries in various areas.

The Minister called for cooperation in agriculture, fisheries and livestock sectors between the two countries to benefit from the enormous potential this area offers.

During the meeting, they deliberated the proposed visit of the Prime Minister to China to participate in the second Belt and Road Forum this month came under discussion regarding areas of industry cooperation, agriculture, socio-economic development and infrastructure.