Source: The Frontier Post
Publisher: The Frontier Post
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. The Frontier Post 
Publication Date: Oct 07, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: CM directs deptts to finalize projects to be included in CPEC before JCC meeting

Snippet: Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Chief Minister Mahmood Khan Monday directed all the departments concerned to finalize working on developmental projects to be included in China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) before the upcoming Joint Cooperation Committee (JCC) meeting to be held in November this year.

He was chairing a meeting, held here at Chief Minister's House, regarding the preparation for the 9th JCC meeting wherein he principally agreed for holding road show in the province to attract foreign investment especially in tourism sector.

Body: 
Mahmood Khan directed all concerned departments to finalize their preparations for the upcoming Joint Working Group (JWG) meetings to be held with Chinese counterpart adding that previously majority of the projects from Khyber Pakhtunkhwa were ignored in the CPEC due to unfavorable federal government.

The meeting was attended by Minister Finance Taimur Saleem Jhagra, Advisor to Chief Minister on Energy Hamayatullah Khan, Chief Secretary Muhammad Saleem Khan, Additional Chief Secretary Shehzad Bangash, Principal Secretary to CM Shahab Ali Shah, Secretary Energy, Secretary Industries, Secretary C and W, Secretary Agriculture, CEOs, KPOGCL, PEDO, EZDMC and other ranking officials.

Mahmood Khan stated that the upcoming visit of Prime Minister Imran Khan to China would prove to be a major game changer for the province.

The Chief Minister also directed the formation of a committee under the chairmanship of Minister Finance Taimur Saleem Jhagra for the attraction of foreign and domestic investment. The committee will also include Additional Chief Secretary, CEO BOT, CEO Industries and other high ranking officials.

The meeting was informed that Hydro Power Projects, Communication Projects, Socio Economic Sector, Agriculture, Public Health Engineering, TEVTA, Economic Zones, Irrigations Schemes etc are ready for execution and the Chinese cooperation in this regard will not only benefit the province but will also contribute tremendously for the promotion of trade and commerce in the region.

According to details, the projects to be discussed in the Joint Working Group to be held from next week include Rashakai Economic Zone, Hattar Economic Zone, Mohmand Economic Zone, Chakdara to Gilgit road via Chitral and Shandur, Greater Peshawar Circular Railway project, Chashma Right Bank lift Canal, KOTO Power project, Swat Expressway Phase II, Peshawar to D.I.Khan motorway, Energy projects and many other are destined to change the future of the province.

The meeting was briefed in detail regarding the mega projects of the provincial government, their feasibility and progress.

The Chief Minister was informed that Chakdara to Gilgit road via Shandur and Chitral will not only promote tourism but will also serve as an alternate CPEC route. Furthermore, the Swat Expressway Phase II, from Chakdara to Fateh Pur includes 82 Km highway which has an estimated cost Rs. 61 billion. Similarly 320 Km Peshawar to D.I.Khan motorway has an estimated cost of Rs. 230 billion.

The meeting was also informed regarding 11 hydro power energy projects with power generating capacity of over 2000 MW which will help in providing cheap electricity to the industrial zones thereby attracting foreign and domestic investment.

The Chief Minister said that Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province is blessed with tremendous investment opportunities and has the potential to become a transit route for trade and commerce for the entire region.

He furthered that under the dynamic and sincere leadership of Prime Minister Imran Khan the federation of Pakistan would be strengthened and all federating units will get their due rights. He advised all the relevant departments to complete their home work before the JCC meeting and directed them to present a strong case for approval of the developmental projects in the upcoming JWG meetings.