Source: Pakistan Press International
Publisher: Pakistan Press International Information Services
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Press International 
Publication Date: Sep 01, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,pakis,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Prime Minister meets delegation of Chinese investors from around 100 Chinese investment companies - Press Note issued by Press Information Department

Snippet: September 02, 2019 (PPI-OT)

Following is the text of press note issued by Press Information Department (PID)

Body: 
Quote

Prime Minister Imran Khan met a delegation of Chinese investors from around 100 Chinese investment companies, mostly from the Shandong province, China, led by Mr. Javed Afridi at Governor House Lahore today. Governor Punjab Chaudhary Muhammad Sarwar, Chief Minister Punjab Sardar Usman Buzdar, Advisor on Commerce Abdul Razzak Dawood, Chairman BOI Syed Zubair Haider Gilani, SAPM Information and Broadcasting Dr. Firdous Ashiq Awan and SAPM Naeem ul Haq were present during the meeting. The investors expressed their eagerness to explore the possibility of investment in diverse sectors of Pakistan saying the country has huge investment potential in various sectors and the CPEC has further opened new avenues of growth of Small and Medium Enterprises.

They expressed their willingness to invest with Small and Medium Enterprises of Gujranwala, Gujrat and Sialkot Triangle. Prime Minister Imran Khan welcomed the Chinese investors and business community and appreciated their willingness to invest in the SME sector of Pakistan. The Prime Minister said that the present government is committed to ease of doing business for foreign investors, and streamlining the existing regulatory framework for investment to avoid wastage of time and resources for the prospective investors.

The Prime Minister while assuring the visiting Chinese investors maximum facilitation said that the country has embarked on the path of economic stability; the present Government is especially focusing on SMEz as it leads to employment generation and poverty alleviation. The Prime Minister reiterated that the Government will make it easier for Chinese companies to capitalize huge investment potential of Pakistan. China is our close ally and friend, and it has always been there to support us, the Prime Minister stated.

For more information, contact:Principal Information Officer,Press Information Department (PID)Tel: +92-51-9252323, +92-51-9252324Fax: +92-51-9252325, +92-51-9252326Email: piopid@gmail.comWebsite: www.pid.gov.pk

Unquote