Source: Pakistan Observer
Publisher: Pakistan Observer
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Observer 
Publication Date: Apr 07, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,pakis,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Chinese delegation lays wreath at Gilgit cemetery of Chinese martyrs

Snippet: A Chinese delegation comprising representatives from the diplomatic mission, various Chinese Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) projects management and Chinese students paid tribute to the Gilgit Cemetry of Chinese Martyrs who sacrificed their lives for the construction of the Karakorum Highway (KKH) between 1960s and 1970s.

A ceremony was held at Gilgit Cemetry of Chinese Martyrs on Sunday which was attended by Deputy Speaker Gilgit Baltistan (GB), Jafar Ullah Khan and other officials of the local government. Speaking on the occasion, Deputy Speaker GB Jafar Ullah Khan said that the friendship of Pakistan and China has transformed into brotherhood, which has set an example of nation to nation relations in the world.

Body: 
He highly appraised the sacrifices and contributions the Chinese martyrs made during the construction of KKH, saying that the bilateral trade between two brotherly countries has gained huge development due to the road network built in the GB region.

The Deputy Speaker GB said that the KKH has been upgraded and has become a part of the China Pakistan Economic Corridor, the pioneer project of the Belt and Road Initiative put forward by the Chinese leadership.

He said that China and Pakistan are working hand in hand to deliver the benefits of the CPEC to all regions of Pakistan, and it will enhance the connectivity among regions of Central Asia, South Asia and the world at large. He emphasized that the GB people fully understand the significance of the CPEC and that any conspiracy against Pak China friendship will never succeed.

The Chinese delegation expressed sincere gratitude for the great efforts of the local government for safeguarding the Chinese engineers working in Gilgilt Baltistan region and the contributions of the Pakistani cemetery keepers made for decades. The 1224 kilometer long KKH, also known as the Pak-China Friendship Road, was built from 1966 to 1978. As many as 700 engineers of both Pakistan and China sacrificed their precious lives for the construction, among which 88 Chinese engineers were buried in the Gilgit Cemetery of Chinese Martyrs.