Source: The Statesman
Publisher: Mashriq Group of Newspapers
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. The Statesman 
Publication Date: Mar 25, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,uae,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,gulfstz,indsubz,meastz,sasiaz,wasiaz,

Title: China deposits $2.2 billion in SBP reserves Agreement with IMF to be reached soon: Asad Umar

Snippet: China has deposited $2.2 billion into State Bank of Pakistan's (SBP) foreign currency reserves on Monday to help Islamabad in making international payments mainly on import and debt repayment counters.

With this, Pakistan has so far received a total of $9.1 billion in financial assistance packages from friendly countries during the current fiscal year (2019) to date, including $4.2 billion from China, $3 billion from Saudi Arabia and $2 billion from United Arab Emirates (UAE).

Body: 
The central bank tweeted, 'State Bank of Pakistan has received RMB 15 billion value equivalent to $2.2 billion as proceeds of the loan obtained by the government of Pakistan from China.'

The SBP reserves stood at $8.84 billion as on March 15, 2019, according to the central bank's latest weekly report. The latest deposits came from Beijing are expected to boost the SBP reserves into double digit after a gap of almost one year.

The comparatively higher imports than exports and debt repayments did not allow the reserves to stay stable, as the government was partially financing such international payments using the reserves. This was despite Pakistan's overseas workers sending notably higher remittances during the first eight months (July-February) of the current fiscal year.

Apart from this, Riyadh has also enabled a $3 billion petroleum oil supply line on deferred payment for Pakistan as well.

Earlier, the UAE had announced a $6-billion package for Pakistan in December 2018 including $3 billion in cash deposit and a credit line of another $3 billion for the supply of petroleum oil on deferred payment. However, Pakistan has not been able to secure the $3.2-billion oil on deferred payments facility from the UAE.

Meanwhile, Finance Minister Asad Umar on Monday said an agreement will soon be reached with the International Monetary Fund (IMF).

While speaking to journalists in Islamabad, Umar said Pakistan had not changed its stance in talks with the IMF. He added that the IMF had revised their stance and "the gap" between the IMF and Pakistan had decreased.

On a related note, the finance minister said gas and electricity prices will increase gradually as subsidies are withdrawn, adding that the government subsidy on gas and electricity will not be withdrawn together. He also added that the new IMF mission chief is to arrive in Pakistan tomorrow (March 26) for an introductory visit.

On March 16, Umar had hinted that bailout package talks with the IMF are in their final stages and the government will have further negotiations with the newly appointed IMF mission chief before reaching an agreement.

"Pakistan has come closer to reaching an agreement with the IMF as the differences between Pakistan and the IMF over a possible bailout package have decreased," he had said.