Source: Pakistan Press International Information Services
Publisher: Pakistan Press International Information Services
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Press International Information Services 
Publication Date: May 27, 2019

Region Codes: ,punjab,india,laho,pakis,asiaz,bric,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Punjab Chief Minister chairs meeting for promoting economic activities - Press Note issued by Directorate General Public Relations, Punjab

Snippet: May 28, 2019 (PPI-OT)

Following is the text of press note issued by Directorate General Public Relations, Punjab (DGPR)

Body: 
Quote

Punjab Chief Minister Sardar Usman Buzdar presided over a meeting at his office on Tuesday in which various proposals regarding promotion of economic activities and generation of job opportunities were reviewed. The future roadmap in the backdrop of meetings held on the occasion of the visit of the Chinese Vice President also came under discussion.

The Punjab government decided to devise an effective strategy for the CPEC and the Chief Minister directed the line departments that CPEC-related strategy should be given final shape as soon as possible adding that salient feature of this strategy should be devised early so as to take maximum benefit of the CPEC projects. He said that CPEC Cell should be made more effective and expanded in the P and D department and added that Chinese collaboration would be further utilized in different sectors including vocational training, agriculture, education, and energy.

China has made unprecedented steps for overcoming the poverty issue and the Punjab government will benefit from this Chinese model to decrease poverty. CPEC is a golden opportunity for the durable development of Punjab and the rest of the country and it would be fully benefited upon. He said that Chinese investors will be given all sort of facilities in Punjab for investment.

Usman Buzdar said that Punjab government is setting up special economic zones and Chinese investment in these zones will be welcomed. He said that CPEC will promote economic activities which will generate new employment opportunities. There is a great demand for skilled labour and it is needed to give special attention to technical and vocational training to fulfill this demand. Human development has been focused in the new Pakistan, he added. The Chief Minister was given a briefing about the generation of new job opportunities. Provincial Minister for Finance Hashim Jawan Bakhat, Economic Advisor Dr. Salman Shah, Chief Secretary, Chairman P and D and others attended the meeting.

For more information, contact:Directorate General Public Relations, Punjab (DGPR)Government of the Punjab21-Mahmood Gaznavi Road (Abbot Road), Lahore, PakistanTel: +92-42-99201390-1-2Fax: +92-42-99201371-2E-mail: info@dgpr.punjab.gov.pkWebsite: www.dgpr.punjab.gov.pk

Unquote