Source: The Balochistan Times
Publisher: Asianet-Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 The Balochistan Times 
Publication Date: Apr 02, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: KP cabinet approves Pak-China agreement for Rashakai Economic Zone

Snippet: Provincial cabinet with Chief Minister, Mahmood Khan in chair Tuesday accorded approval to Pak-China agreement for Rashakai Economic Zone to be built in Nowshera district.

Formal signing of Pak-China agreement will be performed by Prime Minister, Imran Khan during his visit in current month of April, said Shaukat Ali Yousafzai, Provincial Minister for Information.

Body: 
Briefing the media regarding cabinet decisions,Shaukat Yousafzai said Rashakai Economic Zone will promote economic activities in the province and bring an investment of 128 million dollar.

The agreement for Rashakai Economic zone will be reached between KPEZMEC (Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Economic Zones Development and Management Company) and Chinese Company CRBC (China Road and Bridge Corporation), Shaukat told newsmen.

The Rashakai Economic Zone will spread over an area of one thousand acres out of which 702 acres of land will be reserved for establishment of industries.

According to agreement, Chinese Company CRBC will be authorized to make investment, marketing and cover operational responsibilities. The Chinese company will also be responsible for construction of boundary wall of the economic zone besides making security arrangements, he continued.

Information Minister said establishment of Rashakai Economic Zone will generate 200,000 jobs, 50,000 direct and 150,000 indirect, 80 percent induction will be made from Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and remaining from out.

The provincial cabinet also approved provision of gas supply to Kohat and Hangu districts and for this directed for payment of 25 percent of gas royalty amounting to Rs. 84.1092 million to SNGPL for restoration of oil and gas networks.

The meeting also approved inclusion of concerned MNA in committee constituted for utilization of Royalty Fund in gas producing Southern districts of KP.

Shaukat Yousafzai said provincial cabinet gave approval to appointment of Mohammad Nisar, an industrial expert, as Chairman PEDO Board of Directors (BoD) besides giving approval to some necessary amendments in Financial Act 2013.

In the meeting, approval was also granted to supplementary grant of Rs.12 billion for spending on ongoing developmental schemes in the province.