Source: The Wall Street Journal
Publisher: Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Byline: By Saeed Shah 
Copyright: Copyright 2019 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
Publication Date: Apr 03, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,pakis,beijin,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: World News: Belt and Road Plan Squeezes Pakistan --- China's infrastructure program was supposed to fuel economic boom, but construction stalled

Snippet: ISLAMABAD -- The huge Chinese global infrastructure building program known as the Belt and Road Initiative was supposed to help unleash an economic boom in close ally Pakistan that was beneficial to both countries.

Instead, Pakistan is now enmeshed in an economic crisis, putting the brakes on new building, with less than half of $62 billion of Chinese projects carried out. The Chinese infrastructure, all built by Chinese state-owned companies, required the Pakistani government to guarantee repayments to Beijing.

Body: 
Pakistan is now asking China to step up with a different kind of initiative: some $1 billion in development aid and the establishment of factories from the Chinese private sector in the country.

Pakistan also recently needed a $2.1 billion emergency loan from China -- along with even more from Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates -- to stave off a balance-of-payments crisis long enough to negotiate a bailout, expected within weeks, from the International Monetary Fund.

The Pakistani effort to revamp what is known as the China Pakistan Economic Corridor, a showcase for China's 70-nation world-wide infrastructure building spree, isn't the success story Chinese leaders would like heading into its big Belt and Road forum this month in Beijing. The program helped China largely displace the U.S. as a key partner for Pakistan.

Pakistan isn't the only country that has failed to turn massive lending and construction by Chinese state companies into self-sustaining economic momentum -- or that is pushing back against China. While the Chinese leadership got a big boost recently when Italy became the first European to officially sign on to Belt and Road, new governments have come to power in Malaysia, Sri Lanka and the Maldives complaining about debt levels and secrecy surrounding Chinese deals.

In Pakistan, where the powerful army has overseen the strategic relationship with China, public criticism from the government has been muted. But new Prime Minister Imran Khan was critical of many of the projects his predecessor Nawaz Sharif initiated with China in the four-year-old program.

Mr. Khan's government has quietly put on hold many of the remaining $62 billion of CPEC projects -- so far, $19 billion of roads, power plants and port development were started or completed, Beijing said.

Islamabad still hopes to push some more infrastructure through the program, but it is unclear how those projects would be financed.

Mr. Khan wants to refocus the relationship with China on his own priorities, especially health care and education, through more traditional development-aid grants that don't need to be paid back. His government is grappling with a debt mountain and twin budget and balance-of-payments crisis.

According to an internal Pakistani government analysis, the country will have to pay China back $40 billion over the next 20 years just for the projects undertaken so far. Pakistan says its current debt crunch is unrelated to Chinese loans.

Pakistani officials say an agreement with China will soon be signed, perhaps at the coming forum in Beijing, on a first phase of aid projects, worth $400 million to $500 million.

"Both sides have decided to usher in a new stage of CPEC," Yao Jing, China's ambassador to Pakistan, said last week. "We will broaden the cooperation scope, we will have more cooperation in the industrial sector, we will have more cooperation in the social sector."

However, the special economic zones, for Chinese manufacturers, are two years from being ready, Pakistani officials admit. Meanwhile, Pakistan wants them to set up elsewhere in the country.

Chinese projects have helped Pakistan overcome a crippling electricity shortage.

"In the last five years, we've achieved a mammoth amount of investment under CPEC. There's much to celebrate," said Mustafa Hyder Sayed, executive director of the Pakistan China Institute, a think tank in Islamabad.

The Chinese infrastructure was supposed to relieve transport and energy bottlenecks, creating the conditions for economic liftoff. Instead, Pakistan faces economic woes.

Pakistan's central bank in March said a contraction in CPEC-related activities would contribute to a significant growth slowdown this year.

"The line from Imran Khan's party is, 'We like CPEC, we just don't like the Nawaz Sharif version of CPEC,' " said Andrew Small, author of the book "The China-Pakistan Axis." "But China is not happy with that line -- they wanted these projects to attain the status of national projects and don't expect to face political criticism, however carefully couched, from the country that is supposed to be its closest friend."

---

Jeremy Page in Beijing contributed to this article.



License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service