Source: Pakistan Observer
Publisher: Pakistan Observer
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Observer 
Publication Date: Apr 02, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Chinese ambassador appreciates Pakistan's efforts to fast-track CPEC projects

Snippet: Ambassador of China Yao Jing in a meeting with Federal Minister for Planning, Development and Reform Makhdum Khusro Bakhtyar here on Tuesday appreciated the PTI government's decision to fast-track CPEC projects and observed that first Special Economic Zone at Rashakai will bring in more investment and trade to the country.

The Minister on this occasion welcomed the Chinese ambassador and informed that SEZ at Rashakai will be launched so that Pak-China Industrial Cooperation could enter implementation stage.

Body: 
During the meeting, deliverables for the proposed visit of the Prime Minister Imran Khan to China to participate in the second Belt and Road Forum this month came under discussion regarding areas of industry cooperation, agriculture, socio-economic development and infrastructure.

He said Pakistan greatly valued China's support for implementation of Gwadar Airport project.

Secretary Planning Zafar Hasan, Member Private Sector Asim Saeed, Project Director CPEC Hasan Daud and senior officials were also present on the occasion.

Makhdum Khusro was of the view that the present Government attached top priority to the development of Gwadar, highlighting that Prime Minister Imran Khan in his recent visit to Balochistan performed groundbreaking of the Rs. 65 billion Zhob-Kuchlak section of western route, Rs. 17 billion project of transmission line for Makran coast, Rs. 23 billion new Gwadar Airport project, hospital as well as vocational institute.

The implementation of 300 MW energy project in Gwadar will be aligned with the development of Gwadar.

He further said that Pak-China cooperation will be further strengthened by formal framework agreement focusing on joint ventures, and B2B cooperation.

The Minister emphasized the need for robust cooperation between the business communities of the two countries. 'We should move towards Pak-China Business Forum with representatives from leading companies of the two countries in various areas', said the Minister.

The Minister called for cooperation in agriculture, fisheries and livestock sectors between the two countries to benefit from the enormous potential this area offers.