Source: Pakistan Press International Information Services
Publisher: Pakistan Press International Information Services
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Press International Information Services 
Publication Date: Jul 08, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Health Sector provides huge potential for investment: Sanjrani - Press Note issued by Senate of Pakistan

Snippet: July 09, 2019 (PPI-OT)

Following is the text of press note issued by Senate of Pakistan

Body: 
Quote

Chairman Senate Muhammad Sadiq Sanjrani has said that health sector provides huge potential for investment and it is highly encouraging that Chinese investors are taking keen interest in this sector which would help improve quality of life in the country. He expressed these views while talking to a consortium of health sector investment from China here at Parliament House on Tuesday.

The consortium is currently exploring the possibilities of expanding its network providing different health related facilities to the people. Leader of the delegation informed the Senate Chairman about initiatives taken so far. He said that the consortium has presence and different cities of Pakistan with twenty six offices and intends to open an office in Quetta as well.

Senate Chairman appreciated the investment plans of the consortium and hoped that it will benefit the local population by not providing quality health facilities but also generating jobs and enhancing health sector outreach at local level. Senate Chairman assured his cooperation to the Chinese consortium.

He said that China is a sincere friend and Pakistan has always welcomed Chinese investment in different sectors. Senate Chairman observed that China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) is the hallmark of trust and cooperation between Pakistan and China. He said that the project has opened new vistas of cooperation which would go a long way in deepening the historical all weather, time tested friendship of the two.

For more information, contact:Senate of PakistanTel: +92-51-9204564534Fax: +92-51-9205703H.No.7, Cat-II, G-8/2,Islamabad, PakistanE-mail: senate@comsats.net.pkWebsite: www.senate.gov.pk

Unquote