Source: Pakistan Press International Information Services
Publisher: Pakistan Press International Information Services
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Press International Information Services 
Publication Date: Mar 28, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: PM: (Western route of CPEC to develop deprived regions of Balochistan: PM)

Snippet: Prime Minister Imran Khan has expressed the confidence that development of western route of China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) will enhance connectivity and develop the deprived areas of Balochistan.

He was addressing a ceremony after ground breaking of Cardiac Centre and Quetta-Zhob Dual Carriageway in Quetta on Friday. He said the carriageway will connect Balochistan not only with different parts of the country but also the region.

Body: 
Imran Khan said government is also planning to lay down Quetta-Taftan rail track to connect with Iran. He said the federal government with the cooperation of provincial government and Pakistan Army will also establish a cancer hospital in Quetta.

He appreciated the Army Chief Qamar Javed Bajwa for using his connections with the UAE government to set up to the Cardiac Centre. Imran Khan said the present government believes in uplifting all parts of the country. He regretted that Balochistan was neglected in the past.

Addressing the ceremony, Balochistan Chief Minister Jam Kamal Khan said Prime Minister Imran Khan is working to address the grievances of people of Balochistan. He thanked the Prime Minister for starting the work in real terms on western route of China Pakistan Economic Corridor. He said CPEC is a game changer for the whole region.

The Chief Minister said the Balochistan Health Complex is a joint project of Pakistan Army and the provincial government. He lauded the role of Army Chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa for starting this project in collaboration with the government of United Arab Emirates.

He said health is a basic need and this Complex is a great gift for the people of province. Jam Kamal Khan regretted that development of Balochistan was ignored in the past due to lack of accountability, sustainability, and planning strategy.

Cardiac Centre project will be constructed within a two year period with the financial assistance of United Arab Emirates. The cardiac hospital will house latest medical facilities including state of the art operation theatres, Echo and nuclear Cardio facilities. To make the facility environment friendly Bio Medical Workshop and Waste Management Plant will also be constructed.

Road Quetta- Zhob (N-50 motorway) will link Quetta with Zhob while passing through Kuchlak, Muslim Bagh and Qilla Saifullah. It will reduce travelling time between Quetta and Dera Ismail Khan from 12 hours to 4 hours and help uplifting socio-economic activity for local population, particularly local businesses by providing access to minerals and mines and direct access to main markets.

The road will also facilitate speedy transportation of goods from Khyber Pakhtunkhwa to sea port of Karachi. N-50 being primary sub regional corridor running parallel to the western border connecting Afghanistan and Iran with Pakistan and vital connectivity of CPEC western alignment leading to Gwadar Port.