Source: The Express Tribune
Publisher: The Express Tribune
Byline: Irshad Ansari 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. The Express Tribune News Network. 
Publication Date: Apr 20, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Govt likely to bring 'comprehensive plan' for drought

Snippet: The federal government has decided to introduce a comprehensive plan to deal with a possible drought like situation in the country. The plan will be discussed during the Tuesday meeting of the federal cabinet.

According to the document available with Daily Express, the meeting will take up a 16-point agenda. One of the agenda items is the Drought Plan 2019. The plan, expected to be approved, has been prepared by the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) to deal with a possible drought.

Body: 
The cabinet will also examine recommendations for changing the mechanism to compile facts and figures regarding prices of different items to determine the percentage of inflation and to control inflation.

It will examine recommendations of a subcommittee headed by Defence Minister Pervez Khattak regarding a formula to determine increase in prices of commodities and control inflation.

According to the agenda, the meeting will approve a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to make Pakistan a member of the Belt and Road Initiative's tax administrator cooperation mechanism.

A report on implementation of the cabinet's earlier decision regarding the use of freight trains by government departments for the movement of items and equipment will be presented in the meeting.

After the examination of the report, a decision will be taken regarding use of freight trains to transport items and equipment of the government departments.

The federal cabinet will also review MoU for bilateral cooperation between the China international Development Cooperation Agency and the Ministry of Planning and Development for forming the joint working group of the China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) for social and economic development.

A summary for transferring the National Endowment Scholarship for Talent (NEST) from Ministry of Planning will also be examined. The meeting will also examine the cases of former members of the board of governors of the Overseas Pakistanis Foundation.

The summary sent for the appointment of an officer on deputation on the post of member finance of the National Highway Authority (NHA) will also be examined. The meeting will also approve decisions taken on March 13 by the cabinet's committee on CPEC; the decisions taken by the Economic Coordination Committee (ECC) of the Cabinet on April 8 will also be endorsed.

The meeting will get a briefing on the revamping of the country's current educational system. A summary regarding procedural delays and loopholes in clemency appeals will also be examined.

The meeting will also examine a summary regarding appointments of 21-grade judicial members in appellate tribunals and Inland Revenue while the summary for repatriation of a judge of Peshawar banking court 1 will also be examined.