Source: Economist Intelligence Unit - ViewsWire
Publisher: The Economist Intelligence Unit, N.A., Inc.
Byline: 
Copyright: (C) 2019 The Economist Intelligence Unit Ltd. 
Publication Date: May 14, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,uae,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,gulfstz,indsubz,meastz,sasiaz,wasiaz,

Title: Pakistan economy: Quick View – IMF assistance package agreed

Snippet: Event

On May 12th IMF representatives and Pakistani authorities reached an agreement for a US$6bn, three-year financial assistance programme.

Body: 
Analysis

The IMF package is likely to be supplemented by loans from other multilateral donors, such as the World Bank and Asian Development Bank, together with bilateral loans received from allies-China, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates (UAE)-since the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) government assumed power in August 2018.

The conditions accompanying the IMF bail-out are tougher than we had anticipated. One of the most challenging conditions set by the IMF is for Pakistan to reduce its primary budget deficit to the equivalent of 0.6% of GDP by the end of fiscal year 2019/20 (July-June), from the 2.2% recorded in 2017/18. This will require significant changes to both the government's revenue targets as well as its expenditure plans. We believe that many of these changes will be reflected in the upcoming budget, which is likely to be announced by the end of May.

The budget is likely to have an ambitious revenue target, which the government will hope to achieve through using a range of measures-including the introduction of a single value-added tax (VAT) and withdrawal of existing exemptions on income tax, sales tax and excise duties. On the expenditure side, the government is likely to roll back energy subsidies and reduce the outlays for development projects, particularly transport infrastructure. The privatisation of some state-owned enterprises and increases to utility prices will also ease some of the government's payment burdens. Reduced public spending on infrastructure is likely to affect the pace of development of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor in this period. Overall, therefore, the economy's growth will be hampered owing to these measures.

Meanwhile, the government is likely to undertake incremental reform of the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP, the central bank) and gradual marketisation of the currency, at the insistence of the IMF. The pass-through effects of currency depreciation will probably fuel inflationary pressures further, which is likely to result in an even tighter monetary policy by SBP going forward. This, coupled with contractionary fiscal policy and only limited structural reforms, is likely to hamper investment and economic growth during the forecast period.