Source: Business Recorder
Publisher: Emmay Zed Publications (Private) Ltd
Byline: RECORDER REPORT 
Copyright: © 2019 Business Recorder. All Rights Reserved. 
Publication Date: Jan 23, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,pakis,shand,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: PCJCCI celebrates Chinese New Year

Snippet: Pakistan China Joint Chamber of Commerce and Industry (PCJCCI) Wednesday celebrated the Chinese new year by holding B2B meeting with Shandong trade delegation. The 2nd Counsel from the Department of Industry & Information of Shangdong Province, Zang Zongjhun led the 10-member delegation comprising of renowned Chinese companies including Shandong Jinqilin Company Limited, Yuhong New Pigment Company, Hongong Group, Weihai Antai Electronic Refrigeration Equipment Company, Shindaya International Trade Company.

Their areas of interests were auto parts (especial for brake pads & brake materials), electronic refrigeration, optoelectronic communication cable industry, organic pigments, hardware and weighting instruments. Different Pakistani companies of these sectors participated in the meeting and discussed prospects of joint ventures with their Chinese counterparts.

Body: 
PCJCCI Senior Vice President Ahmed Hasnain said that China had stepped forward to assist Pakistan in harnessing the potential of our dynamic population. Both sides are expediting efforts to ensure economic engagements under CPEC, he said and added that by arranging B2B meetings we can exchange ideas, innovations and technological advancements in the potential sectors. He paid a special tribute to the Chinese communities who have maintained friendship and lived in harmony with the local people, and made indispensable contributions to the economic and social development of Pakistan.

Speaking on the occasion, Zang Zongjhun assured that the Chinese industry would keep on extending strong support to spur economic and industrial growth of Pakistan. "Just as Pakistan is happy to see China's growing stature on the world stage, China, in turn sees a strong, stable and prosperous Pakistan as a source of strength, he added.

PCJCCI Vice President Khurram Shafique said it is quite encouraging that apart from public sector, private sectors of both the countries are also entering into joint ventures. Private sector ventures are progressing with every passing day, he said and added that in result of B2B interaction between China and Pakistan at private level, more than 100 billion dollar investment is expected at parallel with the $60 billion investment in the public sector. He was confident that the combination of private and public investment will lead a pragmatic shift in the economic structure of Pakistan.

Later, a cake-cutting ceremony was held to open the celebrations of Chinese New Year, which was also attended by Wang Zihai, Chairman China Affairs Committee of PCJCCI, Dr. Iqbal Qureshi, Moazzam Ghurki and Zang Zongjhun, leader of the Chinese delegation along with his fellow members.