Source: Pakistan Observer
Publisher: Pakistan Observer
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Observer 
Publication Date: Jun 24, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,laho,pakis,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: More Chinese investment

Snippet: AFTER billions of dollars of Chinese investment mainly in power plants and road infrastructure projects under the CPEC, more Chinese companies are now exploring investment opportunities in different sectors which could prove to be important for Pakistan to not only strengthen its economy but also provide better living standards to its people.

Body: 
A Chinese environmental company has now reportedly shown its interest to invest $ 3 billion in the clean drinking water and sanitation system of Lahore. Chairman Punjab Board of Investment and Trade Sardar Tanveer in an interview the other day said negotiations with the Chinese company are currently underway for the execution of this important project. Given the importance of the project for the lives of the people, we expect that the talks will be concluded with the Chinese company at the earliest in order to ensure its early implementation. Previous Punjab government had also initiated some important projects vis-à-vis clean drinking water and waste management in Lahore and some other cities. However, as the metropolitan city has expanded its boundaries to its allied districts, it is important that the civic facilities are also expanded at the new settlements. In fact there is a need to establish an entirely new and modern waste management system in Lahore as well as other main cities of Punjab and then expanding the same to other cities including the rural areas. This is also in line with the vision and manifesto of PTI government and to realize this, federal and provincial governments can secure assistance and cooperation from the Chinese friends. To ensure sustainability of such projects, it is important that the relevant authorities also collect a fixed amount every month from the citizens for provision of these civic necessities. Together we can make our cities and towns cleaner and greener which will also protect our population from diseases as well as the natural disasters.