Source: The Express Tribune
Publisher: The Express Tribune
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. The Express Tribune News Network. 
Publication Date: Nov 08, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: China setting up 19 factories in Gwadar: envoy

Snippet: Chinese Ambassador to Pakistan Yao Jing has announced that China is setting up 19 factories in Gwadar, saying that the measure will help create job opportunities for Balochistan's youth.

'China seeks to contribute to the development of Balochistan's mining, agriculture, fisheries and water sectors while the Chinese consulate is easing visa procedure for the provincial business community,' said Jing while talking to journalists in Quetta.

Body: 
The Chinese ambassador was accompanied by MRDL Saindak Company Chairman Ro Ping, Mines and Minerals Secretary Ghulam Ali Baloch and MRDL Senior Vice President Humayun Mehmood.

'Up to 200 Pakistani students are studying in China on scholarships,' said the Chinese envoy.

He rebuffed speculations regarding the Chinese government's lack of interest in progress of development projects in Balochistan, saying that the Pakistani government should address the issues of some key departments which were causing hurdles in the implementation of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor.

'Following the demographic importance of Balochistan, China has many development projects for the province which will be beneficial for both the Chinese and the Pakistani governments,' the ambassador added.

'CPEC will provide economic fortune not only to Balochistan but Afghanistan and Central Asian countries as well, though Balochistan doesn't link with China but all our projects will lead through Pakistan,' said the envoy, expressing optimism regarding development and prosperity of Balochistan.

He pointed out that the provincial fisheries, agriculture, mineral and livestock sectors had room for development which would help end poverty in the province.

'The Chinese companies have been working on the provincial irrigation sector in order to help Balochistan which is marred by water crisis while 50 vocational centres are being established to polish skills of the provincial youth,' said Jing.

To a query regarding scholarships for Balochistan students, Jing stressed upon provincial students to apply through Higher Education Commission.

On the 9th Joint Cooperation Committee (JCC), the ambassador said positive decisions had been taken in the meeting to address the issues of both the sides.

'China will invest in expansion of Zhob-DI Khan highway which is being considered as vital for CPEC,' he added.