Source: The Express Tribune
Publisher: The Express Tribune
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. The Express Tribune News Network. 
Publication Date: Feb 14, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: 'Energy situation of Pakistan has improved'

Snippet: The Belt and Road project has given birth to a new concept of development, said Federal minister for planning and development Khusro Bakhtiar.

Addressing the inauguration ceremony for Friends of Silk Route organised by the Pakistan China Institute on Thursday, he said the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) is above the interests and affiliations of the political parties. The energy projects related to CPEC have shown considerable impacts, he added.

Body: 
He said that the energy situation of the country has improved over the past five years, as the sector has benefited from the CPEC-related projects. Bakhtiar shared that the government wants to expand the CPEC project to drive more regional development.

'The current year is the year for industrial support. Our government has signed contracts with the Chinese government to promote industry and agricultural sectors.' The minister also emphasised that there is a need to strengthen public contact and economic support between the two countries.

On February 24, a Chinese delegation will arrive in Pakistan to review possibilities and projects for social development, the minister said they wanted support in scale and human development. Giving details on the progress, Bakhtiar said that the Rashakai Economic Zone will be inaugurated in the next six weeks and new power plants and water projects will soon kick off in Gwadar.

Also speaking on the occasion, Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs member Mushahid Hussain Syed welcomed the 14-member delegation from China. He said that the Friends of Silk Route project will bring harmony among the people and states lying in the region.

He said that CPEC was above political interests, adding that a conference will be held in Gwadar in the month of March. He further said that important projects have been inaugurated for development of women in Balochistan.

'Over 70,000 Pakistanis have been employed in CPEC-related projects. In addition, CPEC has also uplifted the country's image for Pakistan.'

The official was of the view that the economic, defence and geographical significance of the country has improved due to the mega project.

While addressing the event, Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference Vice Chairman Gao Yanglong also stressed that relations between Pakistan and China were built on strong people-to-people support between the two countries.