Source: Daily Balochistan Express
Publisher: Asianet-Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Daily Balochistan Express, Quetta 
Publication Date: Nov 28, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Industrial zone under CPEC to create 1 million jobs: Alyani

Snippet: Over one million different jobs would be required in Balochistan with initiating 12 proposed 12 industrial Zones under China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC).

Chief Minister Jam Kamal Khan said in meeting with the Chief Executive Officer of HUBCO, Khalid Nansoor, CEO of China Power Company Mr. Cos, CEO HUBCO Power Holding Limited Rohail Muhammad, here on Thursday. The meeting reviewed implementation on 1230 MW coal fire power constructed at Gadani as joint venture of HUBCO and China Poser Company.

Body: 
The Balochistan government is 3 percent share holder on net profs that of the power project. The Chief executive of the HUBCO has assured that the 3 percent sheet of the Balochistan government agreed esteem the company and the provincial government would started transfer to the Balochistan treasury.

Balochistan has utilized its utmost efforts over the energy project hence it was included in CPEC's initial project.' CM Balochistan said also asked Chinese assistance in skill development sector.

'Government of Balochistan has been utilizing all efforts to prepare skillful men force regarding proposed 12 industrial zones in the province.'

Talking on provincial capacity to handle national and foreign investment Jam Kamal said, costal, mining and energy sectors having vast investment opportunities while exploration of oil and gas continued at block 28,

'Due to sprawling landscape and existing of natural resources, national and international companies have unique opportunities of investment in Balochistan.' CM Balochistan said also invited HUBCO and China Power Company to for investment in province energy, water and mining sectors.

The CEO HUBCO Khalid Mansoor expresses will to invest in Balochistan's water and mining sectors added we have been conducting survey on wind and solar energy projects, 'HUBCO and China Power Company have invested two billion dollars in Gidani coal power project which would fulfil Pakistan and Balochistan's energy needs.' The CEO HUBCO added.

He also informed the Chief Minister that, 40 local individuals have been provided training in China and Pakistan following coal power project while 6000 local residents would get job in this project.