Source: World Gas Intelligence
Publisher: Energy Intelligence Group Inc.
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 Energy Intelligence Group. All rights reserved 
Publication Date: Oct 15, 2019

Region Codes: ,turkm,pakis,asiaz,casiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,ussrz,

Title: Turkmenistan Devises 'Bankable' Export Plan

Snippet: Blessed with massive gas reserves, Turkmenistan is cursed by having very few export outlets. Desperate to find new customers, the country has redrawn quarter-century-old plans to build a pipeline running through Afghanistan to key growth markets in Pakistan and India. The Tapi project is backed by the US, but faces formidable obstacles in the shape of instability in Afghanistan, and the rocky India-Pakistan relationship. In a bid to make it more bankable, Turkmenistan now intends to split it into two construction phases, sources close to the project say (WGI Jul.3'19).

Body: 
Despite holding the world's fourth-largest gas reserves, Turkmenistan produced just 61.5 billion cubic meters (5.9 billion cubic feet per day) last year, less than 1.6% of the global total, according to the BP statistical review. All its 33 Bcm/yr of exports went to China. Iran stopped buying gas in January 2017 amid a price dispute, although Russia -- the No. 1 importer before sales to China began in 2010 -- resumed purchases this April after a three-year gap (WGI Aug.7'19). That is forcing the country on an increasingly urgent quest for new markets, with the 33 Bcm/yr Tapi a potential lifeline. Sources say the plan now is to start off at 11 Bcm/yr, gradually rising to full capacity.

The estimated $7.7 billion first phase will entail laying a single 56 inch diameter pipeline along the whole route, served by a single large compressor station in Turkmenistan. In the second stage, which would push up final costs to around $15 billion, two more compressor stations would be built, at least one of them in Pakistan. The Dubai-based Tapi Pipeline Co. Ltd. (TPCL), the project operator, aims for a financial close next year.

TPCL is owned 85% by state Turkmengas, with 5% stakes held by the state gas companies of the other host countries -- Afghan Gas Enterprise, Pakistan's Inter State Gas Systems and Gail (India). Turkmengas will build the initial 214 kilometer (134 mile) stretch from Galkynysh, the world's largest onshore gas field, to the Afghan border. TPCL will build the remaining 1,634 km through Afghanistan and Pakistan to the Indian border.

The pipe will be buried in a trench, which "will definitely help the security aspect," Werner Liepach from the Asian Development Bank (ADB), which is acting as the Tapi financial adviser, tells Energy Intelligence. "It will be fenced off and there will be a surveillance system with cameras along the length. If somebody climbs over and starts digging, you will immediately get alerted." Providing additional protection will drive up costs, says Liepach, ADB director-general of the Central and West Asia Department, but he believes the challenges can be "managed." 

Efforts to bring in a major to lead pipeline construction have been shelved. Chevron, Exxon Mobil and Royal Dutch Shell have all had their eye on Galkynysh, but were deterred by Turkmenistan's insistence on keeping onshore reserves under state control. Liepach says TCPL may "subcontract the management, but the oil and gas companies are not really interested in pipelines. They want the upstream first, and then they will put in a pipeline to get it out." If TPCL can't find anybody else to manage construction, it will do it itself.

The ADB has said it is willing to finance the pipeline, conditional on compliance with the bank's "procurement process, our environmental and social assessments," Liepach says. In its latest project appraisal, the bank said "persistent delays and changes in technical designs" have pushed up costs dramatically from the $2.6 billion estimated in 2002. "While there have been signs of project progress recently, it coincided with the emergence of alternative gas producers that may compete with Turkmenistan and a declining trend in energy demand globally."

The procurement and construction process will be split into three packages, with two contracts expected to be awarded in each package to mitigate single supplier risk. Two European bidders have been awarded preferred bidder status for the contracts for the line pipe and hot bends package. The final decision will be based on the export-credit financial support they can secure from their home countries. Two Italian bidders have been awarded preferred bidder status for the large valves package. The third package is for the engineering, procurement and construction contract.

Michael Ritchie, London