Source: Pakistan Official News
Publisher: Asianet-Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: (c) 2019. AsiaNet-Pakistan 
Publication Date: Mar 22, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,tunis,tuncty,africaz,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,medz,nafrz,sasiaz,

Title: Flag Hoisting Ceremony held at Embassy of Pakistan, Tunis - Press Note issued by Press Information Department

Snippet: Asianet Pakistan Private Limited

March 23, 2019 (PPI-OT)

Body: 
Following is the text of press note issued by Press Information Department (PID)

Quote

To celebrate Pakistan Day, an elegant Flag Hoisting Ceremony was held at the Embassy today. A large number of Pakistanis and locals attended the ceremony with enthusiasm and zeal, says a press release received from Tunis here today. The ceremony started with recitation from the Holy Quran. Mr. Muhammad Hassan, Ambassador of Pakistan to Tunisia performed the flag hoisting ceremony. The messages by the President and the Prime Minister on the National Day were read out at this occasion.

In his remarks, Ambassador Muhammad Hassan underscored the significance of the Lahore Resolution and the vision of the founding fathers of the nation. He congratulated the members of the Pakistani community on the National Day. He said on this very day, the Muslims of sub-continent adopted the Lahore Resolution which heralded the beginning of practical struggle for attainment of Pakistan. The Ambassador stated that Pakistan today is making progress in all fields.

Due to sound economic policies, the investors' confidence has been restored and Pakistan is poised to become the hub of regional trade, energy and transport. China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) project, a manifestation of deepening bilateral relations between Pakistan and China, is progressing. This mega project, once completed, will usher in prosperity and progress not only in Pakistan but also in the whole region.

Ambassador Hassan said that the nation has embarked on a journey with renewed determination to realize the dream of Quaid-e-Azam Muhammad Ali Jinnah and Allama Muhammad Iqbal. Pakistan is today a forward looking modern democratic country. It is enormously contribution towards world prosperity, connectivity and peace. He urged the members of the Pakistani community to devote their energies towards progress, development, dignity and honour of Pakistan in order to make it a stronger, prosperous and a leading country in the 21st century.

For more information, contact:Principal Information Officer,Press Information Department (PID)Tel: +92-51-9252323, +92-51-9252324Fax: +92-51-9252325, +92-51-9252326Email: piopid@gmail.comWebsite: www.pid.gov.pk

Unquote