Source: Xinhua Silk Road Information Service
Publisher: N.C.N. Limited of Xinhua News Agency
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright N.C.N Limited of Xinhua News Agency 2019, All Rights Reserved 
Publication Date: Jan 10, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,shand,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Investment-inviting Projects

Snippet: Designed output /capacity/outcome

An industrial chain park that integrates enterprise office, R&D design, creative innovation and backstage service as one

Body: 
Description

Shandong Digital Economy Industrial Park is located in core area of Jinan City, covering an area of 1.67 square kilometers, with a planned total construction area of 1.6 million square meters and a planned total investment of 30 billion yuan. A total of 11 large projects will be built in three phases. After completion of the park, the industrial output value will be over 20 billion yuan with profits and taxes exceeding 3 billion yuan, and attracts more than 20,000 industrial talents. The project will focus on information technology industry such as Internet of Things, cloud computing, big data, artificial intelligence, etc. And build a brand new domestic well-known intelligent ecological park.

More than 30 units including China Academy of Information and Communications Technology and Huawei Company have completed the signing and settled in the park. Moreover, Shandong Digital Economy Industrial Park has been enrolled in key projects of Jinan.

Executing Agencies

None

Time Table

The construction period is 24 months and the core area has started construction.

Potential business opportunities

The project is planning to attract investment of about 4.7 billion U.S. dollars with estimated annual sales income of 200 million yuan. The investment tendering is valid for two years from Aug. 8, 2018.

Project Name

Pakistan Cement Plant Investment Project

Country

Pakistan

Sector/Subsector

Mining industry

Project Status

Approved

Source of Funding, Amount

500 million U.S. dollars

Partnership

BOT, others

Designed output /capacity/outcome

The project includes the expansion of mine and cement industry of Pakistan.

Description

In 2013, the Mahraj Group began to invest in Pakistan's rich mining and cement industries. It expanded its market to the mining and cement industry in Pakistan and explored cement-grade limestone deposits with the help of geological consultants. In 2016, local government awarded mining licenses for limestone and cement to Mahraj in two regions. The project has a government background and permanent ownership of the mine. Local government will provide tax incentives.

Executing Agencies

Mahraj Group

Time Table

Specific timetable for project has not been released

Potential business opportunities

The project is estimated with annual sales income of 260 million yuan and the time period for recovery of investmen is about 7 years. The investment tendering is valid two years form Dec. 6, 2017.