Source: Pakistan Observer
Publisher: Pakistan Observer
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Observer 
Publication Date: May 28, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,pakis,laho,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: CM sees off Chinese Vice President Punjab Govt to set up special zones for Chinese investors: Buzdar

Snippet: Chinese Vice President Wang Qishan returned back to China after his three-day visit to Pakistan. Punjab Chief Minister Sardar Usman Buzdar seen off the distinguished guest at the Lahore Airport. On the occasion, Usman Buzdar said that he is happy to host the Chinese guest and it is a matter of honor for us. Your visit will further strengthen the Pakistan-China friendship. The immortal relation of Pakistan-China friendship will never end, he said. Pakistan and China are moving side by side in the journey of development and brotherly relations are touching new heights in the present tenure. A new chapter of love, affection, and cooperation has been written between the two countries, he added.

Body: 
The Chinese Vice President thanked the Chief Minister for warm hospitality in Lahore and added that he can never forget the love which he is given in Lahore. China is already standing with Pakistan in the journey of development and prosperity and would do so in future as well and the immortal friendship would be further strengthened by working on new dimensions of mutual cooperation, he added.

Usman Buzdar also presented the album of pictures of Lahore visit to Chinese Vice President who showed a keen interest in it. Your team has worked very hard and this album is memorable for me, he said and added that he is going back with fond memories. Provincial ministers Raja Basharat, Syed Sumsam Bukhari, Nauman Langrial, Dr. Yasmin Rashid, Ijaz Alam, Taimur Bhatti, Samiullah Ch., Ashfa Raiz, Ansar Majeed Khan Niazi, Hafiz Mumtaz Ahmad, Hashim Dogar, Chief Secretary, IG Police and others were also present on the occasion.

Meanwhile,Punjab Chief Minister Sardar Usman Buzdar presided over a meeting at his office on Tuesday in which various proposals regarding promotion of economic activities and generation of job opportunities were reviewed.

The future roadmap in the backdrop of meetings held on the occasion of the visit of the Chinese Vice President also came under discussion. The Punjab government decided to devise an effective strategy for the CPEC and the Chief Minister directed the line departments that CPEC-related strategy should be given final shape as soon as possible adding that salient feature of this strategy should be devised early so as to take maximum benefit of the CPEC projects.

He said that CPEC Cell should be made more effective and expanded in the P and D department and added that Chinese collaboration would be further utilized in different sectors including vocational training, agriculture, education, and energy.

China has made unprecedented steps for overcoming the poverty issue and the Punjab government will benefit from this Chinese model to decrease poverty. CPEC is a golden opportunity for the durable development of Punjab and the rest of the country and it would be fully benefited upon.

He said that Chinese investors will be given all sort of facilities in Punjab for investment.

Usman Buzdar said that Punjab government is setting up special economic zones and Chinese investment in these zones will be welcomed. He said that CPEC will promote economic activities which will generate new employment opportunities.

There is a great demand for skilled labor and it is needed to give special attention to technical and vocational training to fulfill this demand. Human development has been focused in the new Pakistan, he added.

The Chief Minister was given a briefing about the generation of new job opportunities. Provincial Minister for Finance Hashim Jawan Bakhat, Economic Advisor Dr. Salman Shah, Chief Secretary, Chairman P and D and others attended the meeting.