Source: Pakistan Observer
Publisher: Pakistan Observer
Byline: Zubair Qureshi 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Observer 
Publication Date: Aug 26, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: China Pakistan Economic Corridor entering next phase

Snippet: Since China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) is now entering into next phase with incorporation of new additional areas, there is a need for an integrated entity in the form of CPEC Authority.

The draft for the establishment of CPEC authority will be presented in the upcoming meeting of the federal cabinet.

Body: 
This was decided in the Cabinet Committee on China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) held here on Monday. Federal Minister for Planning, Development and Reform Makhdum Khusro Bakhtyar chaired the meeting. The meeting reviewed pace of various projects under CPEC framework.

Federal Minister for Railways Sheikh Rashid Ahmed, Minister for Maritime Affairs Ali Zaidi, Adviser to PM on Commerce, Textile and Industry Abdul Razzak Dawood, Deputy Chairman Planning Commission (DCPC) Dr Jahanzeb Khan, Secretary Planning Zafar Hasan, Secretaries from different ministries, members Planning Commission and senior officials from provincial governments also attended the meeting.

On the occasion, Secretary Planning gave a detailed presentation to the participants on various projects under CPEC framework. The Committee decided that financing discussion on ML-1 project should be commenced to finalize mode and PC-1 of the project.

The Minister reiterated that it is a very important project under CPEC portfolio and the incumbent Government is committed to fast track it.

The Committee also held detailed discussions on various projects under CPEC in infrastructure, energy and other areas.

About Rashakai Special Economic Zone, it was apprised that nego

tiations on Development Agreement was in final stages with CRBC. The committee directed to ensure early provision of utilities to Rashakai SEZ on priority so that groundbreaking could be performed next month. Minister for Planning said that the Government is committed to provide incentives for SEZ's including 100% repatriation of profits.

The committee also decided to present land use plan for Gwadar Smart Port city to the Federal Cabinet after incorporating recommendations of the Balochistan provincial government.

Energy projects including 300 MW Gwadar Coal Power Plant, Kohala Hydropower Project (1124 MW) and Thar coal projects, Infrastructure projects including Multan-Sukkur Motorway and Orange Line Train project were also deliberated upon. It was apprised that Multan-Sukkur Motorway will be inaugurated soon. The civil works on Orange Line Train Project will be completed by December this year.