Source: The Frontier Post
Publisher: The Frontier Post
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. The Frontier Post 
Publication Date: Jul 18, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: OPPO Mobile keen to set up production unit in KP

Snippet: Renowned OPPO Mobile Phone manufacturing Chinese company (OPPO) Mobile Technologies) has expressed interest in the installation of production unit in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa to meet the local demand of the provision of modern smart phone in the province.

The offer was made by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) OPPO Mobile Technologies, George Long during a meeting with KP Finance Minister TaimurSaleemJhagra along with a Chinese delegation here on Thursday. Special Assistant to KP CM on Science Technology and Information Technology (ST and IT), Kamran Bangash was also present on the occasion.

Body: 
During the meeting, the Chinese delegation discussed matters relating to the investment of OPPO Mobile Company in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa in detailed.

The CEO OPPO Mobile told that the installation of the production unit on one side will provide quality mobile phone to the people at local level and on the other side provide employment opportunities for more than 4000 persons.

The Provincial Minister for Finance, TaimurSaleemJhagra while welcoming investment and establishing of the production unit in KP assured full cooperation and provision of all possible facilities to the company, the step, he said would usher far reaching benefits for both the province and the investor as well.

The provincial minister told that the management of OPPO Mobile to tell the provincial government regarding their needs and other spheres of cooperation in detailed. So the provincial government will review the utility of the offer and complete reciprocal steps.

The OPPO Mobile team while expressing thanks over the offer of full cooperation on behalf of the minister and special assistant reiterated the establishment of their production unit on the land of hospitality of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.

The provincial minister said that the steps initiated by the provincial government for the promotion of local and foreign investment in the province are building up the confidence of investors and different foreign and local investors are expressing interest for large-scale investment in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.

He said that investment in the province would not only increase economic activities rather would also generate employment opportunities for thousands of people.

The finance minister TaimurSaleemJhagra and Special Assistant Kamran Bangash gave detailed briefing to the Chinese delegation regarding the steps taken by the provincial government for promotion of investment in the province.

They told that environment for investment has become cordial for investment and in near future KP would prove an attractive place for investment and in next few years, it would earn big share of receipt from investment.

They further said that the provincial government is taking all-out steps for the industrial uplift and beside Rashakai Special Economic Zone, work on the establishment of other industrial zones is also in progress that would provide direct job opportunities for millions of people.