Source: Associated Press Newswires
Publisher: The Associated Press
Byline: 
Copyright: (c) 2019.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 
Publication Date: Sep 25, 2019

Region Codes: ,spain,pakis,arg,chgdu,china,fra,srilan,usa,alsa,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,eecz,eurz,indsubz,lamz,medz,namz,samz,sasiaz,sichu,weurz,

Title: BC-AP--AP Sports Digest, AP

Snippet: WORLD SPORTS AT 2300 GMT:

TOP STORY:

Body: 
SOC--ENGLISH ROUNDUP

Manchester United narrowly avoided one of the most embarrassing cup exits in its history, only beating third-tier struggler Rochdale in a penalty shootout after conceding a goal to a 16-year-old school kid in normal time. On a night when top-flight teams West Ham, Bournemouth and Sheffield United were eliminated by lower-division opposition in the third round of the English League Cup, United had a major let-off at Old Trafford despite fielding a lineup containing Paul Pogba and $60-million offseason signing Aaron Wan-Bissaka. By Steve Douglas. SENT: 600 words, photos.

SOC--SPANISH ROUNDUP

MADRID _ Real Madrid's Brazilian teenagers came through on Wednesday, taking the team to the top of the Spanish league. Vinícius Júnior and Rodrygo scored a goal each for Madrid as it defeated promoted Osasuna 2-0 at the Santiago Bernabéu Stadium. By Tales Azzoni. SENT: 500 words, photos.

SOC--ITALIAN ROUNDUP

ROME _ Napoli's Serie A title aspirations took a hit with a 1-0 home loss to Cagliari on Wednesday while Inter Milan extended its perfect start in the Italian league. Inter beat Lazio 1-0 with a first-half header from Danilo D'Ambrosio and a series of difficult saves from goalkeeper Samir Handanovic, who was marking his 300th match with the Nerazzurri. By Andrew Dampf. SENT: 500 words, photos.

SOC--FRENCH ROUNDUP

PARIS _ Paris Saint-Germain slumped to its first home defeat in the French league in 16 months by losing 2-0 to Reims on Wednesday. Hassane Kamara headed in the first-half opener for Reims, which clinched victory with an acrobatic volley from Boulaye Dia that crept inside the post in second-half stoppage time. SENT: 300 words, photos.

SOC--BARCELONA-MESSI

BARCELONA, Spain _ Barcelona says Lionel Messi will be sidelined because of a muscle injury picked up in the first half against Villarreal in a Spanish league match on Tuesday. The club says Messi has a left abductor injury but did not give a timeline for his recovery. SENT: 250 words, photos.

SOC--FIFA-TRANSFER REFORM

ZURICH _ A FIFA panel has agreed limits on fees that agents can take from the $7 billion annual soccer transfer market, and caps on the number of player loan deals that clubs can make. Seeking some control over the global trade in players often described as a "Wild West," FIFA said its stakeholders committee of soccer industry experts recommended key principles on Wednesday. By Graham Dunbar. SENT: 350 words.

ATHLETICS:

ATH--IAAF CONGRESS

DOHA, Qatar _ With a lucrative sponsorship deal to open his second term, Sebastian Coe has one hope for the next four years leading track and field. "Not to be dominated by Russia," the IAAF president said after being re-elected unopposed on Wednesday. "It has been a tough four years. There is no point being naïve or coy about that." By Rob Harris. SENT: 700 words, photos.

RUGBY:

RGU--RWC-SCOTLAND-HARD TRUTHS

KOBE, Japan _ It's taken Scotland a few days to get over Ireland. There was a team meeting and some hard truths were spelled out. It was uncomfortable but necessary, the players said. There was anger and frustration. Scotland has a new setting to refocus in after the 27-3 drubbing in Yokohama to open their Rugby World Cup. By Gerald Imray. SENT: 500 words, photos.

TENNIS:

TEN--ATP ASIA

CHENGDU, China _ Alexander Bublik of Kazakhstan upset sixth-seeded Taylor Fritz 4-6, 7-5, 7-5 at the Chengdu Open on Wednesday. Bublik had 25 aces against his American opponent and saved four of five break points to advance to the Round of 16. SENT: 300 words.

CRICKET:

CRI--PAKISTAN-SRI LANKA-MISBAH

KARACHI, Pakistan _ Pakistan's head coach and chief selector Misbah-ul-Haq says Sri Lanka's top players should have come for the limited-overs series in Pakistan after being assured of head-of-state-like security by the government. Ten of Sri Lanka's best players pulled out of the three-match ODI series and three Twenty20s in Pakistan due to security concerns — including ODI captain Dimuth Karunaratne and Twenty20 captain Lasith Malinga. By Rizwan Ali. SENT: 400 words, photos.

YOUR QUERIES: Questions and story requests are welcome Contact your local AP bureau or the AP International Sports Desk in London by telephone at +44 207 427 4224 or email lonsports@ap.org