Source: Business Recorder
Publisher: Emmay Zed Publications (Private) Ltd
Byline: MUHAMMAD SALEEM 
Copyright: © 2019 Business Recorder. All Rights Reserved. 
Publication Date: Nov 26, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Chinese team, CM discuss CPEC-related projects

Snippet: Terming the CPEC project as a game-changer initiative for Pakistan, the Punjab Chief Minister Sardar Usman Buzdar on Tuesday said this initiative has written a new history of economic cooperation between the two countries.

This was stated by him while talking to a 36-member business delegation led by President China-Pakistan Friendship Association (CPFA) and former Under Secretary General of the UN Sha Zukang, here on Tuesday.

Body: 
During the meeting, matters of mutual interest including promotion of Pakistan-China relations and CPEC related projects were discussed. It was agreed to further promote bilateral cooperation under the CPEC.

Sha Zukang said on the occasion that CPEC has given new heights to Pakistan-China relations and added that this cooperation is being strengthened with every passing moment. "The CPEC is a flagship programme of Road and Belt Project while the people are interlinked with each other through the bonds of mutual respect. Pakistan is another home for the Chinese people and every possible step will be taken to promote cooperation with Punjab in different sectors," he said.

Advisor Dr Salman Shah briefed about the steps being taken for the promotion of investment and ease of doing business in Punjab.

Talking on the occasion, the CM said: "China is the most trustworthy and sincere friend which has always sided with Pakistan in every hour of trial. China has become a global economic power due to untiring efforts of its leadership while a solid foundation of development has been laid through CPEC project in Pakistan."

Usman Buzdar expressed satisfaction that bilateral relations are further strengthened during the incumbent government of PTI adding that continuous contacts are essential to further promote the relations in future. "Chinese investment will be welcomed and investors will be given every possible facility by the Punjab government; Public-Private Partnership Authority has been established to promote private investment in the province and Chinese investors can take benefit of projects launched through PPP mode," he said.

Chinese Consul General Long Dingbin, besides provincial ministers Mian Mehmood-ur-Rasheed, Sardar Muhammad Asif Nakai, Sardar Husnain Bahadur Dreshak, Muhammad Mohsin Leghari, Akhtar Malik, Malik Nauman Ahmad Langrial, Chairman P&D and others were also present.

Moreover, US Ambassador Paul Jones called on CM Usman Buzdar on Tuesday and discussed matters of mutual interest.

Ambassador Paul Jones, on this occasion, said that America gives special importance to its relations with Pakistan and added that cooperation with Punjab government will be further promoted. He congratulated the government for opening the Kartarpur Corridor and said that a positive message has been given to the world.

US Consul General Catherine Rodriguez, Political and Economic Chief Barry Junker were also present on this occasion.

Talking on this occasion, the Chief Minister said that Prime Minister Imran Khan is striving to develop a new Pakistan where everyone has equal access to facilities of life. Pakistani leadership is moving towards achieving the goals of a new Pakistan and a welfare agenda, aimed at public welfare, is being implemented by the government.

Usman Buzdar pointed out that steps have been taken for the restoration of historical heritage and added that the Walled City of Lahore Authority has been extended to the whole of the province. He said the Punjab government is also going to establish nine universities for providing quality higher education to the students. In addition to it, nine new hospitals are being established for giving better healthcare facilities to the people and this would add nine thousand beds. Ten special economic zones will be established in Punjab and the federal government has approved six such SEZs while work is in progress on four other SEZs, he added.