Source: CEEMarketWatch
Publisher: CEEMarketWatch
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019. CEEMarketWatch 
Publication Date: Sep 18, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,saarab,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,gulfstz,indsubz,meastz,sasiaz,wasiaz,

Title: Net total foreign investment increases 41.8% y/y to USD 156.8mn in August

Snippet: Net FDI decreased by 57.8% y/y whereas net PFI significantly increased by 183.7% y/y

China was the highest FDI investor while the largest FPI came from Luxembourg

Body: 
We expect little decline in the FDI in FY20 as decreasing Chinese investment would be replaced by investment from Saudi Arabia

Net total foreign investment (FI) in Pakistan increased by 41.8% y/y to USD 156.8mn in August, according to the provisional data released by the State Bank of Pakistan. In monthly terms, net total foreign investment rose by 46.3% m/m in August as it stood at USD 107.2mn in July. The total FI in August rose entirely on account of the sharp increase in the net Foreign Portfolio Investment (FPI) by 183.7% y/y whereas net Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) dropped by 57.8% y/y. The fall in net FDI was in line with the downward trend observed in the FY19 when it decreased by 61.2% y/y to USD 1.2bn.

The largest FDI inflow in August came from China followed by the United Kingdom and the United Arab Emirates. In terms of sectors, financial business saw the most FDI inflows, followed by communications and power sectors. The largest FDI outflow was made by Malta. The increase in the net FPI was contributed largely by Luxembourg which invested USD 73.8mn in August.

The bleak FDI figures came as a disappointment for the government who has strove to improve the country's security situation and energy infrastructure. Although China was the largest foreign direct investor in August, its contribution in the overall FDI has been gradually declining due to the completion of the first phase of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC). However, we expect Pakistan's FDI to remain unchanged or slightly decrease in FY20 as investment from Saudi Arabia would replace Chinese investment. Pakistan and Saudi Arabia signed investment deals worth nearly USD 20bn in March when the country's crown prince visited Pakistan.