Source: The Express Tribune
Publisher: The Express Tribune
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. The Express Tribune News Network. 
Publication Date: Apr 29, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,pakis,karch,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Cementing bonds with Beijing

Snippet: Prime Minister Imran Khan has capped off a successful official visit to Beijing by meeting the top Chinese leadership on Sunday and signing a raft of agreements under the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) framework, including the Main Line-1 railways accord, thereby putting the icing on the corridor cake. His meeting with President Xi Jinping at the Great Hall of the People in the Chinese capital was the high point of his visit. Earlier, he met with his counterpart Li Keqiang and discussed a range of issues before they inked the deals. Under the Main Line-1 railways project, a double railway track will be laid from Peshawar to Karachi. The speed of trains on the new track will be around 160 kilometres per hour, said Minister for Railways Sheikh Rashid. Also noteworthy is the conclusion of the second phase of Free Trade Agreement (FTA) which promises to give Pakistan's exports to China a much-needed shot in the arm.

Body: 
 Other agreements relate to cooperation in the field of marine sciences and Rashakai SEZ joint venture.

During the meeting, President Xi Jinping reiterated China's unwavering support to Pakistan's sovereignty and territorial integrity and appreciated the government's agenda for socioeconomic development and people-centric progress. He affirmed that China-Pakistan ties would continue to acquire greater strength and deepen practical cooperation in the time to come, a statement issued after the meeting said. The two sides also exchanged views on the regional situation, including in Afghanistan and South Asia. President Xi further expressed China's appreciation for Pakistan's sustained and successful efforts in the fight against terrorism and to create a peaceful neighbourhood. PM Imran underscored the importance of CPEC for Pakistan's economy and noted with satisfaction its expansion into new areas of development - including industrial development; livelihood projects; social uplift; and agriculture in line with the priorities of government. He hoped that Chinese investment in SEZs would expand Pakistan's industrial base and assist in diversifying its export basket, the statement added. Let us hope the two countries keep the momentum of high-level exchanges to draw maximum benefits from their cooperation.