Source: The Statesman
Publisher: Mashriq Group of Newspapers
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. The Statesman 
Publication Date: Mar 07, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,pakis,jiangs,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: China International Cooperation Centre established at KMU

Snippet: To solve major scientific issues in the field of global health and jointly cultivate innovative talents with an international perspective and the capacity of global health governance, through friendly negotiations, Nanjing Medical University (NMU) China has established a collaboration center for global health at Khyber Medical University (KMU) Peshawar. This centre has been inaugurated in the light of an MoU signed by Prof. Dr. Arshad Javaid, Vice Chancellor KMU and Prof. Dr. Jianming Wang, Dean School of public Health, NMU. Besides others, Health Minister Dr. Hisham Inamullah Khan, Pro VC KMU Prof. Dr. Jawad Ahmad, Registrar KMU Prof. Dr. Mohammad Saleem Gandapur, Dean Public Health KMU Prof. Dr. Zia ul Haq, officials of Health Deptt and faculty were also present at the occasion. According to the MoU, both parties will carry out academic exchange activities regularly, including holding academic workshops and seminars.

Body: 
 Both universities will cooperate to apply for grants, implement researches, and jointly publish scientific papers.

KMU and NMU will select excellent faculties and provide them short-term training or continuing education opportunities at each other's school. The said MoU elaborated that both sister organizations will start a student exchange program, providing opportunities for students to be trained at each other's school. Cooperation in social services, including health education, health promotion, personnel training, and policy support will also be the part of mutual cooperation. The said agreement shall be valid for five years and takes effect since the date of signature of the agreement. Another major part of the said MoU is inauguration and establishment of the China International Cooperation Centre (CICC) for environment and human health overseas research base at KMU.