Source: The Nation
Publisher: News Bites Pty Ltd
Byline: Maqbool Malik 
Copyright: © 2019 Asianet-Pakistan 
Publication Date: Jul 12, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Chinese companies assure $5b investment in Pakistan in 3-5 years

Snippet: Executives and CEOs of leading Chinese companies, during a meeting with Prime Minister Imran Khan on Friday, committed to invest five billion US dollars in Pakistan in next 3-5 years.

A high level delegation of over 55 executives and CEOs of the leading Chinese companies that called on the Prime Minister here expressed confidence in the business friendly policies of the government. They committed to invest five billion dollars in five years in various small and medium sizes industrial sectors of Pakistan on which Prime Minister welcomed Chinese companies' investment plans for Pakistan.

Body: 
The visiting delegation represented various sectors including construction, machinery, glass, automobile, electrical, power, transportation, information technology and technological research.

The visit of the largest ever Chinese delegation is a follow-up of Prime Minister's visit to China and inking of agreements to enhance bilateral cooperation in different areas.

Welcoming the delegation, Imran Khan said interest of Chinese companies towards investment and relocating business and industrial units to Pakistan reflected the trust of Chinese side in the growing economy of our country and a strong desire to translate Pak-China equation into a win-win economic partnership. He said the government is facilitating investors and reducing impediments in 'ease of doing business'.

He said partnership with Chinese companies and their investment will reap multiple benefits for both the countries including employment generation, transfer of technology and economic growth.

While talking about CPEC, the Prime Minister reiterated that CPEC will prove to be a game-changer with respect to enhancing trade activities and further cementing Pak-China relations.

He said fast-track implementation of CPEC projects is our priority for which a special unit is overseeing implementation of various projects in Planning Division. On the occasion, Chinese Ambassador Mr. Yao Jing said Chinese investors have observed fundamental improvement of policies and facilitation of foreign investors.

He said Chinese government will extend all possible support towards realizing the vision of a strong, stable and prosperous Naya Pakistan.

Planning Minister Makhdoom Khusro Bakhtiar and Commerce Advisor Abdul Razzak Dawood briefed the meeting about CPEC projects and various steps being taken to facilitate businesses and improving ease of doing business.

Chairman Board of Investment Syed Zubair Haider Gilani and Chairman FBR Syed Shabbar Zaidi were also present during the meeting.

Meanwhile, Prime Minister Imran Khan has expressed government's commitment to encourage investors and provide them all out facilities. Chairing meeting of Board of Directors of Board of Investment here on Friday, the Prime Minister said different laws at federal and provincial levels, unnecessary rules and regulations for businesses, hurdles by government departments for business community and corruption resulted in stagnation of industrial development.

He said the large number of youth in the country, availability of cheap workforce and liberal government policy provide conducive environment to investment which should be fully utilized.

The Prime Minister directed the Chairman BoI to complete the process of harmonizing and integrating the federal and provincial laws on business within a month. He said the relevant laws should be made simpler in coordination with the provinces in the light of recommendations of Board of Investment.

Meanwhile, a review meeting to evaluate progress on Naya Pakistan Housing Program was held here on Friday with Prime Minister Imran Khan in the chair.

The meeting reviewed various legal and administrative aspects of the housing program. It was attended by Law Minister Dr Farogh Naseem, Minister for Economic Affairs Hammad Azhar, Advisor on Finance Dr. Abdul Hafeez Shaikh, Advisor on Commerce Abdul Razak Dawood, Chairman Board of Investment Zubair Gillani, Secretary Housing Dr. Imran Zeb and Chairman Naya Pakistan Housing Authority retired General Anwar Ali Hyder.