Source: BBC Monitoring South Asia
Publisher: The British Broadcasting Corporation
Byline: 
Copyright: (c) 2019 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation. 
Publication Date: Apr 17, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,beijin,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Pakistan PM set to attend Belt and Road Forum in China

Snippet: Text of report in English by website of leading private Pakistani satellite TV channel Geo News on 17 April

Islamabad: The Foreign Office on Wednesday said Prime Minister Imran Khan will visit China from April 25 to 28.

Body: 
"On the invitation of President Xi Jinping, Prime Minister Imran Khan is visiting China from April 25 to 28 to attend the 2nd Belt and Road Forum in Beijing. The forum will be inaugurated by President Xi Jinping on April 26," the FO statement read.

Belt and Road Forum provides a platform to countries participating in Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) for exchanging views and experiences on regional connectivity; policy synergy; socio-economic development and trade and commerce. Leaders from 40 countries and delegations from over 100 countries, international organizations and corporate sector would participate in the event, the statement added.

FO said that during the visit, the premier will be accompanied by a ministerial delegation.

"PM Imran will deliver a keynote speech in the opening ceremony of the forum and participate in the Leaders' Round Table. He would also hold meetings with several heads of state/government and corporate and business leaders," it added.

In addition to participating in the Belt and Road Forum, PM Imran will also hold bilateral meetings with President Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang.

Pakistan and China will also sign several MoUs and Agreements to enhance bilateral cooperation in diverse areas, as per the statement.

Following the forum, PM Imran will attend Beijing International Horticulture Exhibition-2019 and address Pakistan Trade and Investment Conference in Beijing.

This will be the premier's second visit to China since assuming office in August last year. PM Imran had earlier paid a state visit to China in November 2018.

Source: Geo News TV website, Karachi, in English 17 Apr 19