Source: Pakistan Official News
Publisher: Asianet-Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: (c) 2019. AsiaNet-Pakistan 
Publication Date: Nov 03, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Minister for Planning and Vice Chairman NDRC inaugurate 300 MW Coal Power plant in Gwadar - Press Note issued by Press Information Department

Snippet: November 04, 2019 (PPI-OT)

Following is the text of press note issued by Press Information Department (PID)

Body: 
Quote

Federal Minister for Planning, Development and Reform Makhdum Khusro Bakhtyar and Vice Chairman National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) Ning Jizhe inaugurated the 300 MW Coal Power Plant during their visit to Gwadar today. Chairman Senate Sadiq Sanjrani, senior officials and Chinese delegation members were also present. Speaking on the occasion, Minister for Planning said that benefits of CPEC are being reaped as various projects under this monumental framework are being completed or nearing completion. He stated that the incumbent Government has quickened the pace of CPEC projects which is evident from the inauguration of this coal power plant.

He expressed confidence that implementation of CPEC projects will be fast tracked in coming days. During the meeting between Minister for Planning and Vice Chairman NDRC, discussions were held on special incentives package for investment in Gwadar. VC NDRC expressed pleasure at the proposed package and hoped that it will enhance investment in Gwadar city which will benefit the people of the area. A donation ceremony was held in Gwadar wherein 4000 solar energy facilities and 700 school uniform were donated by China.

Appreciating the donations, Khusro Bakhtyar noted that provision of 4000 solar household units will ensure provision of electricity to Gwadar. On the occasion, unveiling ceremonies of China-Pakistan Government Faqeer Colony Middle School Expansion Project and Gwadar Port Authority Commercial Complex project were also held. During the visit, Chairman Sadiq Sanjrani, Minister for Planning, VC NDRC and Chinese members' delegation visited the sites of different projects being executed under CPEC framework including Gwadar North Free Zone Phase-II, Gwadar International Airport and East Bay Expressway and examined the pace of work.

For more information, contact:Principal Information Officer,Press Information Department (PID)Tel: +92-51-9252323, +92-51-9252324Fax: +92-51-9252325, +92-51-9252326Email: piopid@gmail.comWebsite: www.pid.gov.pk

Unquote