Source: Daily Balochistan Express
Publisher: Asianet-Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Daily Balochistan Express, Quetta 
Publication Date: Feb 04, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Floating Jetty constructed under CPEC handed over to people of Allana Goth

Snippet: Asianet Pakistan Private Limited

Floating Fisherman Jetty, a $400,000 CSR initiative of the China Power Hub Generation Company (Pvt.) Ltd, was handed over to the people of Allana Goth at a ceremony in the presence of media and local dignitaries.

Body: 
China Power Hub Generation Company (Pvt.) Ltd.

is a project of the China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC). It is a joint venture between China Power International Holding (74%) and HUBCO (26%) Guo Chunshui of the Economic Commercial Section, Consulate of the People's Republic of China, Karachi, Arshad Hussain Bugti, Secretary, Coastal Development Fisheries Department, Balochistan, Zhao Yonggang, CEO, CPHGC, Haji Akbar Askani, Advisor for Fisheries to the Chief Minister Balochistan were chief guests.

Addressing the ceremony, Zhao Yonggang, Chief Executive Officer, CPHGC said that the Floating Fishermen Jetty was the fulfilment of a promise made to the people of the area. "Even before the Plant has started its operations, even before we made a single rupee of profit, we have delivered on our commitment to help the locals by providing them with infrastructure that will aid them in improving their lifestyle," he said.

Guo Chunshui, Chinese Commercial Consul, highlighted the progress of CPEC. He said, "Over the past 5 years, under CPEC, 11 projects have been completed.

11 projects are under construction. The total investment of the above 22 projects is around 18.9 billion dollar and 70,000 jobs are directly created for Pakistan.

" Congratulating CPHGC and the locals on the construction of the Jetty he said, "It is a great pleasure for me to attend today's inauguration ceremony of the Floating Fisherman Jetty, donated by China Power Hub Generation Company (Pvt.) Ltd.

On this special occasion, on behalf of the Consulate General of the People's Republic of China in Karachi, I would like to give the warmest congratulations on this charity project which benefits our dear Pakistanis." Later the handing over document was signed by Zhao and Arshad Hussain Bugti, on behalf of the Coastal Development and Fisheries Department.

The construction cost of the Jetty was financed by China Power Hub Generation Company (Pvt.) Ltd.

on behalf of the State Power Investment Corporation (SPIC) the main sponsor of the 1320 MW CPHGC plant. The Jetty was constructed after reaching an understanding with the Coastal Development and Fisheries Department, Balochistan that it will be handed over to the people of Allana Goth.

The Construction of the Jetty was performed by a Pakistani contractor, employing Pakistani manpower and took one year to complete.