Source: Daily Messenger
Publisher: Daily Messenger
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Daily Messenger 
Publication Date: Nov 13, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: PM vows to economically uplift country by bolstering exports

Snippet: Prime Minister Imran Khan has vowed to economically uplift the country by bolstering exports and attracting foreign investment. He was addressing a tripartite signing ceremony between MSD Tire and Rubber Company, Doublestar China and Daewoo Pakistan Express Bus Service Limited on Wednesday. The prime minister said the agreement signed today between Pakistani and Chinese companies is aimed at local production of tires. 'This will not only help us reduce the import bill but the export of tires will build up our foreign exchange reserves.' He welcomed Chinese investment in different sectors and said that Pakistan would encourage more Chinese investment by providing them with an enabling environment. He said several agreements have already been signed with China, adding that the China Pakistan Economic Corridor provides a platform to further bolster the economic partnership between the two countries.

Body: 
The prime minister said the country's economy has been stabilized as a result of measures taken by the present government. 'The current account deficit has been curtailed and the rupee has also stabilized. Positive sentiments are now also visible in the stock market,' he maintained. PM Imran was confident that Pakistan would achieve a higher growth rate than the one projected for the current fiscal year. 'We are giving incentives to construction activities in order to uplift this important sector of the economy. We are also extending facilities to the investors.'

The PM said that the world institutions, including the International Monetary Fund, the Asian Development Bank and the World Bank, have also endorsed that the country is heading towards the right direction. 'The World Bank has improved our ease of doing business ranking by 28 points.' He, however, stressed that the government's next challenge is to provide job opportunities to the youth by bringing in the investment. For this, he added, the government would fully facilitate the investors.