Source: Pakistan Today
Publisher: Nawa Media (Pvt.) Limited
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Nawa Media (PVT.) Limited. 
Publication Date: Apr 24, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,pakis,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Premier to jet off to China today

Snippet: Asianet Pakistan Private Limited

Prime Minister Imran Khan will embark on a four-day official tour to China today to attend the second Belt and Road Forum (BRF).

Body: 
The premier will be visiting the country on the invitation of President Xi Jinping to attend the high-profile event in the Chinese capital - scheduled to be held on Friday.

He will also deliver a keynote in the opening ceremony of the forum and participate in the Leaders' Round Table. The Prime Minister is also expected to meet his Chinese counterpart Li Keqiang and President Jinping on the sidelines of the event.

Reportedly, Pakistan and China will also sign several MoUs to enhance bilateral trade and cooperation in different fields.

The prime minister will also sign the second phase of the Free Trade Agreement (FTA) between Pakistan and China during his visit to Beijing.

Earlier on April 21, the Chinese foreign minister said that 'through this event, China intends to share the benefits of economic growth with its friends and partners across the globe.'

Briefing media about the three-day event, he said it will be inaugurated by President Xi Jinping. Noting that the BRF is the top-level platform for international cooperation under the framework of the Belt and Road Initiative, he said the conference would be of landmark significance.

The theme of the second BRF is 'Belt and Road Cooperation, Shaping a Brighter Shared Future.' Wang said the main purpose is to promote the high-quality development of Belt and Road cooperation, which is the common aspiration of countries participating in the initiative.

Speaking highly of the fruitful results yielded since the initiative was launched in 2013; he said the second BRF was greatly welcomed worldwide with some 5,000 participants from more than 150 countries and 90 international organizations have confirmed their attendance, covering areas from five continents and different walks of life such as government, civil society, business and academia.

A joint communiqué will be released after the leaders' roundtable and other consensus reached during the forum.

The Belt and Road Initiative, proposed by President Xi in 2013, aims at enhancing all-around connectivity through infrastructure construction, exploring new driving force for the world economic growth, and building a new platform for world economic cooperation, according to Wang.

'As the host country, we will maintain close communication and coordination with all parties to prepare for the forum with openness, inclusiveness and transparency, upholding the principle of consultation and cooperation for shared benefits,' he added.

This will be the premier's second visit to China since assuming office in August last. He last visited China in November 2018.