Source: BBC Monitoring South Asia
Publisher: The British Broadcasting Corporation
Byline: 
Copyright: (c) 2019 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation. 
Publication Date: Nov 10, 2019

Region Codes: ,afgh,pakis,asiaz,casiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Press selection list for Afghan newspapers 10 Nov 19

Snippet: Newspapers published in Kabul

Hasht-e Sobh (independent)

Body: 
1. Editorial entitled "Bitter repetition of the 2014 scenario" says the bad news is that differences among commissioners of the Independent Election Commission are made public. It warns the scenario of the 2014 presidential elections will be repeated if Abdullah Abdullah's electoral ticket stops cooperation with the Independent Election Commission. (p 2, about 600 words in Dari, PROCESSING)

2. Article by Ferdaus Kawesh entitled "Efforts to establish negotiating delegation" (p 4, about 1,000 words in Dari, NPP)

3. Article by Abdul Ahmad Husseini entitled "When will intra-Afghan meeting be held in China?" (p 5, about 1,200 words in Dari, NPP)

Mandegar (private)

1. Editorial entitled "What does US Congress's report on Pakistan's policies towards Afghanistan mean?" discusses the most recent US Congress report saying Pakistan has long been playing a negative role in Afghanistan in addition to supporting terrorist groups. It says Pakistan's lack of cooperation with the Afghan peace process will be a big factor behind the report. (p 2, about 900 words in Dari, PROCESSING)

2. Article by Ahmad Emran entitled "Peace of Presidential Palace" is not sure whether President Ghani's peace proposal will be effective and practical, saying the release by the president of hundreds of Taliban prisoners has yet to yield a positive result. (p 2, about 1,800 words in Dari, NPP)

3. Article by Mohammad Akram Andeshmand entitled "Look at Pakistan's policies towards Afghan peace process" believes Afghanistan and its people will achieve lasting peace in months if Pakistan stops supporting the Taliban and other insurgents operating in Afghanistan. It says Pakistan has always played a negative role in the Afghan peace process. (p 2, about 2,000 words in Dari, NPP)

4. Unattributed article entitled "Bell of electoral crisis rings" warns Afghanistan will once again experience a serious electoral crisis if differences among electoral tickets are not settled. (p 8, about 900 words in Dari, NPP)

Weesa (private)

1. Editorial entitled "May God support Afghan nation" says the boycotting by three electoral tickets of the Independent Election Commission's decision to recount the votes of more than 8,000 polling stations should not be taken lightly. It warns the decision will lead to another crisis if the protesting electoral tickets do not change their stance. (p 2, about 550 words in Pashto, PROCESSING)

2. Article by Habibi Samangani entitled "US elections in 2020 and Afghan imbroglio" quotes observers as saying that the continuation and end of the Afghan conflict will be crucial for President Trump's political life. (pp 1, 4, about 1, 4, about 2,000 words in Dari, NPP)

3. Article by Beheshta Arghand entitled "Delay in announcement of election result harmful to traders" lashes out at the Independent Election Commission for failing to announce the primary election result on the scheduled date, saying national traders find it difficult to carry on with their plans and activities. (p 3, about 1,200 words in Pashto, NPP)

4. Article by Belal entitled "What direction is Pakistan going in?" discusses the recent spate of political differences between the central government and prominent political leader Maulana Fazel Rahman in Pakistan. (p 2, about 1,500 words in Dari, NPP)

Arman-e Melli (close to the National Union of Journalist of Afghanistan)

1. Editorial entitled "Something strange happens" accuses the Independent Election Commission of breaching the law, saying there would be no need to purchase biometric machines if the commission is truly planning to count the votes unavailable in the biometric system. It warns Afghanistan will plunge into another crisis if the commission does not act responsibly. (p 2, about 600 words in Dari, PROCESSING)

2. Article by Ali Musavi entitled "Tajikistan, victim of Islamic State's beyond-the-border operations in Afghanistan" (p 3, about 1,600 words in Dari, NPP)

3. Unattributed article entitled "Collusion among poppy, terror and several other polluted hands" accuses certain foreign intelligence and political organisations of trying to link poppy cultivation with the continuation and prolongation of insecurity and insurgency in Afghanistan. It says terrorists will be unable to purchase arms from abroad if they are not helped from outside Afghanistan. (p 2, about 1,200 words in Dari, NPP)

Arman-e Melli (close to the National Union of Journalist of Afghanistan) 7 November

1. Editorial entitled "Security institutions should maintain impartiality" says in case differences between the electoral tickets of Ashraf Ghani and Abdullah Abdullah become more serious, the security forces should not interfere. It calls on the relevant bodies to take action to prevent any possible electoral crisis. (p 2, about 600 words in Dari, NPP)

2. Article by Noorullah Walizada entitled "Role and mission of UN in Afghanistan should be made clear" says the UN mission in Afghanistan has been ambiguous. (p 3, about 1,400 words in Dari, NPP)

3. Article by Abdul Matin Ferahmand entitled "Leading electoral tickets engaged in illegitimate war on invalid votes" (p 2, about 1,200 words in Dari, NPP)

The Daily Afghanistan (private)

1. Editorial by Mohammad Hedayat entitled "Generation of crisis, most obvious sign of breach of law" lashes out at the electoral tickets that have boycotted the Independent Election Commission's decision to recount the votes of nearly 8,000 polling stations. It calls on the election commissions to discharge their duties and responsibilities appropriately. (p 2, about 900 words in Dari, EXCERPT 500 words)

2. Article by Abdul Hamid Arefi entitled "Independent Election Commission and people's legitimate expectations" urges the Independent Election Commission to act bravely and not succumb to any political pressure, calling on the electoral tickets to respect and accept the commission's future decisions also. (p 3, about 1,000 words in Dari, NPP)

3. Article by Mohammad Salim Naji entitled "Management crisis in absence of anti-government political parties" (p 3, about 1,200 words in Dari, NPP)

The Daily Afghanistan (private)

1. Editorial by Mohammad Hedayat entitled "Independent Election Commission's impotence" describes the delay in announcement of the primary result of the presidential elections as a big sign of the Independent Election Commission's impotence and poor performance. It calls on commissioners of the election commissions to understand the fact that people will not forgive them in case they succumb to political pressures. (p 2, about 900 words in Dari, NPP)

2. Article by Mohammad Daud Mohammadi entitled "Aftershocks of Afghanistan's economy" (p 3, about 1,400 words in Dari, NPP)

3. Article by Jan Mohammad Askari entitled "Discussion over types of political systems and need to guard current political system in Afghanistan" describes the current political system in Afghanistan as legitimate, calling on political personalities to cooperate with the central government to overcome existing challenges. (p 3, about 1,600 words in Dari, NPP)

Eslah (state-run)

1. Editorial entitled "Birthday of beauty and mercy" salutes Prophet Muhammad for his services and sacrifices for peace and justice. (pp 1, 5, about 1,000 words in Dari, NPP)

Eslah (state-run) 7 November

1. Editorial entitled "We need to know about life of Prophet Muhammad in current era" (pp 1, 5, about 900 words)

2. Article by Asif Muhajir entitled "Condition of political parties in country; opportunities and challenges" accuses a majority of Afghan prominent political personalities and former jihadi leaders of choosing personal over national interests, saying differences and confrontations between the central government and political parties have made the peace process complicated. (p 4, about 900 words in Dari, NPP)

3. Article by Payenda entitled "Instable process of fight against international terrorism and its impacts on Afghanistan" discusses the killing by American soldiers of Islamic State or IS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi in Syria, saying the war on terror in Afghanistan has been unsuccessful due to the international community's policy of appeasement towards the Taliban and other militant groups. It warns the entire world will be threatened by terrorists if the Afghan security and defence forces are not supported properly. (p 3, about 2,000 words in Dari, NPP)

4. Article by Bulbul Hussein Shafaq entitled "Peace process fraught with a lot of ambiguities and difficulties" (p 5, about 2,000 words in Dari, NPP)

Etilaat-e Roz (private)

1. Editorial entitled "Need to prevent crisis" says the signs of electoral crisis are now clear, adding that biometrically-verified votes should be counted only. It calls on electoral tickets to allow the Independent Election Commission to act responsibly and cautiously. (pp 1, 2, about 800 words in Dari, PROCESSING)

Hewad (state-run)

1. Editorial entitled "We mark Muhammad's birthday and week" urges the entire Muslim world to follow the lifestyle of Prophet Muhammad. (p 2, about 600 words in Pashto, NPP)

Hewad (state-run) 7 November

1. Editorial entitled "We congratulate Muslims on birthday of Prophet Muhammad" (p 2, about 600 words in Pashto, NPP)

2. Unattributed article entitled "Problem of selling of low-quality medication in Afghanistan" calls on the Ministry to Public Health to take action against the traders who import medication of low quality to Afghanistan. (p 3, about 2,000 words in Dari, NPP)

3. Article by Sultani Mangal entitled "Taliban should declare ceasefire to make sure they are ready for peace" gives an assurance that the National Unity Government is determined to establish lasting peace and stability in Afghanistan, calling on the Taliban to take the country's national interests into account and declare a ceasefire as soon as possible. It believes the next government will also make genuine peace efforts to end the current bloody and imposed war. (pp 3, 5, about 2,000 words in Pashto, NPP)

4. Article by Rangina Asadi entitled "Scepticm about intra-Afghan meeting in China" comments on the effectiveness of the upcoming intra-Afghan meeting in Beijing, China, saying regional countries' sincere cooperation with the Afghan peace process will help end the current bloody war in Afghanistan. (p 7, about 1,000 words in Dari, NPP)

Maseer (private)

1. Editorial entitled "Afghanistan on brink of another electoral crisis" calls on all the electoral tickets and the election commissions to act responsibly and understand the reality that Afghanistan is experiencing a controversial and unpleasant situation. It urges the Independent Election Commission to dare announce the election result after ensuring transparency in the vote counting process. (p 2, about 600 words in Pashto, PROCESSING)

2. Unattributed article entitled "Process of recount of votes; three electoral tickets boycott process of recount of votes" (p 3, about 1,000 words in Pashto, NPP)

3. Article by Strategic Centre for Regional Studies entitled "Eighteenth summit of Shanghai Cooperation Organization and its impact on Afghan peace" urges members of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization to play a key role in ending the Afghan conflict, saying the organization has the capability of making the Afghan peace process a success. (p 2, about 2,000 words in Pashto, NPP)

Sarkhat (private)

1. Editorial entitled "Playing with people's votes" calls on the Independent Election Commission to discharge its duties appropriately and avoid playing with people's legitimate votes. It warns if political differences continue to loom larger, the election result will not be announced. (p 2, about 600 words in Dari, NPP)

2. Unattributed article entitled "Certain electoral tickets trying to secure political interests" accuses a number of political parties of choosing political over national interests, calling on the Independent Election Commission to make every effort to restore people's lost trust in elections. (p 2, about 1,000 words in Dari, NPP)

3. Article by Zamir Safi entitled "What will happen after peace?" (p 3, about 1,200 words in Pashto, NPP)

Newspapers published in Herat

Etefaq-e Islam (state-run daily) 6 November

1. Governor of Herat Province Abdul Qayyum Rahimi has presided over a meeting with relevant officials in his office. In the meeting, the governor has stressed the need for properly collecting taxes in the province. (p 1, about 200 words in Dari, NPP)

2. Officials have said a suspect has been arrested on charges of smuggling alcoholic beverages from western Farah province to Herat province. Separately, police have detained three suspects on charges of carrying weapons in Precinct No 6 of Herat city, the capital of Herat. (p 1, about 350 words in Dari, NPP)

3. In an open court, a suspect has been sentenced to eight years in jail on charges of armed robberies in Herat province. (p 4, about 200 words in Dari, NPP)

Etefaq-e Islam (state-run daily) 5 October

1. Governor of Herat Province Abdul Qayyum Rahimi has met UN officials in his office. In the meeting, the governor has urged international donor countries to provide assistance to internally displaced people in the province. (p 1, about 250 words in Dari, NPP)

2. Local officials have said two tribal elders have been killed in an armed conflict over saffron harvest in Ghowrian District of Herat Province. They have further said the conflict has ended and several suspects from both sides have been arrested by police in the town. (p 1, about 300 words in Dari, NPP)

3. Chief Executive Officer Abdullah Abdullah has met Former President Hamid Karzai, discussing ways to help restore peace and stability in Afghanistan. (p 4, about 200 words in Dari, NPP)

Etefaq-e Islam (state-run daily) 4 October

1. Zafar Military Corps No 207 has said it has launched a military operation with the aim of targeting insurgents and militants in the western Farah province. (p 1, about 150 words in Dari, NPP)

2. A joint meeting of provincial councils from the western Herat and the central Bamian provinces has been held in Herat city. In the meeting, members of the councils have exchanged views and discussed ways to further boost cooperation between people and the government. (p 1, about 400 words in Dari, NPP)

3. Report says Germany has pledged to donate 72m Euros to Afghanistan by the end of this year. (p 4, about 100 words in Dari, NPP)

Source: As listed

Source: Afghan press selection list in Dari and Pashto 10 Nov 19