Source: Daily Balochistan Express
Publisher: Daily Balochistan Express
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Daily Balochistan Express, Quetta 
Publication Date: Dec 16, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Pak-China economic ties improving, says Zahoor Buledi

Snippet: Provincial Finance Minister Mir Zahoor Ahmed Buledi has said that China's friendship is based on strong economic ties, which is getting stronger day by day.

'China-Pakistan Economic Corridor has opened the gates of foreign investment in Pakistan,' Zahoor Buledi said during the ceremony of foundation stone of 150-bed Hospital and Technical Center in collaboration with People's Republic of China in Gwadar.

Body: 
Chinese Consulate General Mr. Wing, Provincial Minister for Revenue Saleem Khosa, Chief Minister's Adviser for Fisheries Haji Mohammad Akbar Askani, MPA Mubeen Khilji and other Pakistani and Chinese officials were present on the occasion.

Zahoor Buledi said that the establishment of China Aid Hospital and China Technical and Vocational Institute will make it easier for Gwadar to get medical facilities and vocational education.

Investing in these areas of the Chinese government is an enduring example of Pakistan's friendship and a wonderful gift. Balochistan has huge fishing opportunities. Balochistan government has approved Mines policy. Balochistan has become a safe haven for fishermen.

The completion of the projects under CPEC will change the destiny of the region and the projects completed under CPEC will bring prosperity in Pakistan.

'150 bed hospital will be constructed at cost of 240 RMB Chinese currency, while 87 million RMB Chinese currency will be provided to establish Pak-China Friendship Technical and Vocational Training Institute,' he told.

'The technical center and hospital construction is a prime example of Pak-China friendship,' he said, adding that with the creation of skilled people with these projects, thousands of people will have employment opportunities.

On this occasion, Chinese authorities said that China is taking full measures for the development and prosperity of Gwadar. 'China is interesting in various fields, including investment in Pakistan. 150 beds hospital, technical centers and public health facilities for producing skilled people in Gwadar' they told.