Source: The Balochistan Times
Publisher: Asianet-Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 The Balochistan Times 
Publication Date: Mar 07, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: NAVTC to train unskilled workers to meet required demand of CPEC projects

Snippet: The National Vocational and Technical Training Commission (NAVTTC) has planned to initiate technical and vocational training for semi or unskilled local youth to meet the required jobs for upcoming China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) projects.

The CPEC will attract more than 1.2 million direct jobs in various projects during next 10 years, however a large number of skilled workers are needed in the country to be prepared to tap the potential in this regard.

Body: 
"The mega project has already provided employment to around 75, 000 people during previous five years, but a large portion of them comprised of raw labour leaving space for the Chinese skilled workers to seize the employment opportunities in early harvest projects of CPEC", according to a report of Center of Excellence for CPEC.

"Pakistan's labour market has the 9th largest labour force in the world with an estimate of 61 million workers out of which 5.9 percent are unemployed, " it said adding despite huge bulge of unemployment , the early harvest projects of CPEC were reported to lack required skill sets and experiences in the domestic labour market.

Consequently Chinese companies had to opt for foreign workers and the proportion of unskilled domestic labours hired in these projects were so far more than the skilled and technical labours of Pakistan.

In an energy plant, a sum of almost 3000 skilled labours were hired in its constructional phase from which 77 percent were of Chinese origin.

A main factor identified in the discussed problem was the gap between the Chinese companies and the labour market of Pakistan.

In this regard, a collaborative job portal comprising the data base of skilled and unskilled labours had been established to forward the demand from Chinese firms to the suppliers o the labour market including NAVTTC, TVEA, and HEC.

In this manner this job portal can bridge the Chinese companies with their relevant demand of labours, the report added.

It said the National Vocational and Technical Training Commission (NAVTTC) maintains the data of its students in a secured talent pool database which do not compromise on its authenticity. The data is constantly updated to know the real time situation of their students. On the other hand Chinese companies if require a group of skilled workforce in a specific district face inadequate circumstances. The initiative will serve to connect the skilled workforce with the job opportunities under CPEC by providing a unique demand driven database to employers.

The Chinese companies will register with the National Job Portal for CPEC and they would be required to enlist their future labour demand according to the nature of the project.

Subsequently, NAVTCC will initiate technical and vocational training for the semi or unskilled local youth making them capable to meet the demand of the employers at their proposed location in the near future.