Source: National Herald Tribune
Publisher: National Herald Tribune
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. National Herald Tribune. 
Publication Date: May 08, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Huawei ICT academy inaugurated at Kohat University of Science and Technology

Snippet: Huawei ICT Academy inaugurated in Kohat University of Science and Technology, His Excellency Minister for States and Frontier Regions, Mr. ShehryarKahan Afridi, respected Vice Chancellor Kohat University of Science and Technology, Dr. Jamil Ahmad and Mr. Wang Xuesong, director of Huawei Enterprise business Department attended the ceremony at Kohat University of Science and Technology, in KPK. The ceremony was witnessed by Ziaullah Bangash, provincial Minister for Education, Imtiaz Shahid ex-provincial Minister of Law, professors of Kohat University and officials from Huawei Pakistan. Minister for States and Frontier Regions, Mr. Shehryar Kahan Afridi thanked Huawei's efforts, he said " we should develop our own strength, our own technology, learning from Huawei, learning from Chinese language, learning from this developed technology?to develop our own strength.

Body: 
" Huawei Pakistan has successfully collaborated with 15 public and private sector universities in its Huawei Information Communication Technology Academy program in all provinces of Pakistan. Mr. Wang Xuesong, the director of Huawei Enterprise business Department introduced the Huawei ICT academy during the inauguration ceremony. Huawei ICT Academy is a partnership between Huawei and Academies around the world. Through this partnership, Academy delivers Huawei ICT technologies training, encourages students to get Huawei certification, and develops talents with practical skills for the ICT industry and the community. 8 professors who completed HCIA training and HCAI certification received their Huawei certificates during the ceremony. Huawei is currently cooperating with over 600 universities to open Huawei ICT academies around the world, with about 200 in China. Last year, the Academy trained over 12,500 students globally. Among them, 5,000 students received certifications for their skills.