Source: Dawn
Publisher: Pakistan Herald Publications (Pvt.) Limited
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Dawn 
Publication Date: Apr 01, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Pakistan's role in acceleration of CPEC projects acknowledged by China

Snippet: Asianet Pakistan Private Limited

Chinese Ambassador Yao Jing on Tuesday acknowledged Pakistan's efforts to accelerate China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) projects, particularly the groundbreaking of the western route, RadioPakistan reported.

Body: 
The Chinese ambassador made those remarks during a meeting with Minister for Planning, Development and Reform Makhdoom Khusro Bakhtiar in Islamabad.

Bakhtiar hailed China's support in the implementation of Gwadar Airport project and said that the development of Gwadar remains one of the top priorities of the government.

He noted that Prime Minister Imran Khan, in his recent visit to Balochistan, performed the ground-breaking of the Rs65 billion Zhob-Kuchlak section of the western route, approved a Rs17bn project of the transmission line for Makran coast, as well as a Rs23bn new Gwadar Airport project, a hospital, and a vocational institute.

Bakhtiar, as per RadioPakistan, said that "CPEC has gained momentum and efforts would be made to continue the same pace in future."

Exclusive: CPEC master plan revealed

The minister stated that the first special economic zone at Rashakai will be launched soon in order to enter into the implementation stage of Pak-China Industrial Cooperation, the state radio broadcaster reported.

According to Radio Pakistan, Bakhtiar said that cooperation between the two nations will be further strengthened by a formal framework agreement focusing on joint ventures.

Emphasising the need for robust cooperation between the business communities of the two countries, Bakhtiar said that "we should move towards Pak-China Business Forum with representatives from leading companies of the two countries in various areas."