Source: Business Recorder
Publisher: Emmay Zed Publications (Private) Ltd
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 Business Recorder. All Rights Reserved. 
Publication Date: May 04, 2019

Region Codes: ,laho,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,pakis,sasiaz,

Title: A sordid tale of delays

Snippet: The multibillion rupee Lahore Orange Line Metro Train, the first such project in the country, has turned out to be one more example of how not to properly plan and execute a public sector scheme in a timely fashion. Taking up the matter recently, a two-member Supreme Court bench expressed annoyance over the inordinate delay in the project completion, giving the three construction companies engaged in the task to finish work by May 20. Directing them to furnish money guarantees, the court warned that the amount would be forfeited in case they did not meet that deadline, and also that they could be removed from the project or sent to prison.

Body: 
The project has kept getting stuck due to one reason or another. Taking off in October 2015, it hit the first snag when civil society members noticed it would damage many heritage sites along the train route. They obtained a stay order from the Lahore High Court, which the provincial government challenged in apex court. There it was allowed to resume construction work, under some 30 conditions to protect heritage structures, but the verdict remained reserved for several months. Meanwhile, people living alongside the route or travelling around it suffered health problems from inhaling dust rising from the huge mounds of dirt dug out for laying the train tracks through underpasses. All this could have been avoided had the government carried out the necessary feasibility study paying serious attention to every little detail before launching the project. Soon enough, it ran into another usual problem. Even after the court gave the go-ahead, the construction work failed to pick up 'Punjab Speed' as the contractors claimed their dues were pending with the government. Then a new government took over the reins of power in the province. It promised to complete the project, but exhibited little enthusiasm to make a concerted effort towards that end.

It is rather curious that no one seemed to care about or even know the construction timelines as well as the commercial operation date of the project. As a press report points out, whether calculated from the date when the construction work started, or Pakistan and China signed the Rs 162 billion loan agreement, or the month during which China released the first tranche of Rs 33 billion, the completion deadline passed last year. This could have unpleasant consequences for the Punjab government. For, those familiar with the terms of the agreement say it will have to pay damages worth Rs 51 million per day after it misses the completion target date. It might get a reprieve considering the lack of clarity about that date. Yet the government could be in for a surprise. One can only hope this time around all concerned will act with a sense of urgency. And come May 20, the Lahore's Orange Line Metro Train would be getting ready to chug along its newly laid out route.