Source: Pakistan Engineering Review
Publisher: Engineering Review, Karachi
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Engineering Review. 
Publication Date: Jan 30, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Rahim Yar Khan power project shelved - Muzaffargarh likely to follow, distribution lines turn a prime issue

Snippet: Islamabad has decided to shelve the 1,320MW Rahim Yar Khan power project which was included in the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC). The government, reports say has also communicated to Beijing about its decision. Another power project proposed to be built in Muzaffargarh would likely to face the same fate too. Both projects are coal-fired power plants. RYK power project was among the projects which were branded as the PML - N babies no matter many believed then the fate of such projects was already sealed. And, there were valid reasons, said a former federal secretary who talked to Engineering Review.

Body: 
Islamabad has officially conveyed to Beijing that it is no more interested in the project as it holds sufficient generation capacity for the next many years. The move is aimed at getting rid of the project formally. Last month, a Pakistani delegation led by Minister for Planning and Development Makhdoom Khusro Bakhtyar proposed to remove the project from the list, said the report. However, Chinese suggested that a joint study on the optimization of energy mix be carried out at the earliest. RYK power plant was supposed to burn imported fuel which was being considered to be yet another burden on national exchequer.

The project which was originally pushed as an imported coal-based plant by Quaid-i-Azam Thermal Company of the Punjab government led by former chief minister Punjab Shahbaz Sharif had lost its significance because of two reasons. One that the country had already achieved surplus power generation and two that the imported coal would affect the tariff. A highly placed source claimed that Punjab needed not extra power anymore as the country had added around 5000 megawatts to its national grid and thus facing contraction.

This had forced the government to ban capacity addition on imported fuels in 2016—the year when RYK and Muzaffargarh coal-based plants were dropped from the CPEC priority list. When contacted, former chairman of the National Electric Power Regulatory Authority (NEPRA) Fazlullah Qureshi said Pakistan had an installed capacity of 3000 megawatts. RYK and Muzaffargarh power plants were expected to be dropped from the beginning. Sialkot was also criticized. He said even the evacuation of Thar coal power plants' power was an issue due to transmission line ahead of Matyari. Mr. Qureshi said Pakistan was facing distribution issue as there had been no investment in transmission lines. They cannot carry extra load because of their ill health.