Source: Pakistan Press International
Publisher: Pakistan Press International Information Services
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Press International 
Publication Date: Aug 28, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Gwadar is the jewel of CPEC, and efforts are being made to develop the city on modern lines: Zafar Hasan - Press Note issued by Press Information Department

Snippet: August 29, 2019 (PPI-OT)

Following is the text of press note issued by Press Information Department (PID)

Body: 
Quote

Secretary Planning Zafar Hasan has said that Gwadar is the jewel of CPEC, and efforts are being made to develop the city on modern lines. He said that Federal government and provincial government of Baluchistan are making all out efforts to complete the CPEC projects as soon as possible. Secretary Planning said this during a meeting of the Joint Working Group (JWG) on Gwadar here in Islamabad on Thursday. China's National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) Deputy Director General Mr. Gao jian, PD CPEC Hassan Daud, officials from line ministries, representatives from provincial government of Baluchistan were also present in the meeting.

Secretary Planning Zafar Hasan said that the work on 300 MW coal based power plant will be expedited so that electricity can be provided which is crucial for development of Gwadar. It was also decided that the Joint Cooperation Committee meeting will be held this year in Islamabad in November. Bothe sides appreciated the approval of Gwadar Free zone concessional agreement and it was decided that work on Phase-11 will be expedited.

It was informed that five Chinese enterprises have shown interest for investing in Gwadar Free Zone. It was decided that on the recommendation of government of Baluchistan, the Gwadar Friendship Hospital, Nurses Training Center and Teaching Hospital will be built. Chinese side stated that in the first phase the hospital will be built and in the second phase the Nursing School and training Center.

It was decided that in order to electrify Gwadar Port special provision of solar household projects will be undertaken on priority under socio-economic development. Fisherman Training Center will be incorporated in the vocational training center. The meeting noted that preparatory work on Gwadar Airport has commenced and work on the project will begin by November this year. After JWG, an MoU was signed between Gwadar Development Authority and China Foundation for Peace and Development on China-Pakistan Government Faqeer Colony Middle School.

For more information, contact:Principal Information Officer,Press Information Department (PID)Tel: +92-51-9252323, +92-51-9252324Fax: +92-51-9252325, +92-51-9252326Email: piopid@gmail.comWebsite: www.pid.gov.pk

Unquote