Source: Daily Messenger
Publisher: Daily Messenger
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Daily Messenger 
Publication Date: Oct 26, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Chinese Envoy stresses for private sector linkages to improve Pak-China bilateral trade

Snippet: Ambassador of China to Pakistan Jao Jing said on Saturday that through private sector engagements, the volume of trade between Pakistan and China could be enhanced manifold. Talking to Islamabad Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ICCI) President Ahmed Waheed at the Chinese Embassy, the envoy said that Pakistan should focus on manufacturing and value addition of products in order to enhance its exports. 'Chinese companies are keen to invest in Pakistan but supportive policies are required for joint ventures,' he added. Ambassador Jing said that Pakistan could enhance its share of exports by ensuring quality and competitive prices. 'China International Import Export Expo 2019 offers tremendous opportunities to exporters to enter in the Chinese market and Pakistani companies should take part in such exhibitions.'

Body: 
He said that China would encourage Pakistani business delegations to explore new areas of cooperation, adding that a Chinese agricultural delegation would visit Pakistan by the end of the ongoing month. 'The Chinese commercial section will also hold cultural events, besides arranging training and capacity building programmes,' he stated. Speaking on the occasion, ICCI President Muhammad Ahmed Waheed urged the Chinese investors to help Pakistan in technology transfer through JVs, particularly in the special economic zones. He said that IT and services' sectors were other potential areas of cooperation between the two countries. The ICCI president said that the visit of Pakistani investors to high-tech companies in China should be arranged so that new avenues of mutual cooperation could be explored. He thanked the ambassador for giving assurance of his cooperation in the development of the private sectors of both countries.