Source: South China Morning Post
Publisher: South China Morning Post Publishers Limited
Byline: Cissy Zhoucissy.zhou@scmp.com 
Copyright: (c) 2019  South China Morning Post Publishers Limited, Hong Kong. All rights reserved. 
Publication Date: Oct 10, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,pakis,beijin,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Belt and road plan growth hits brakes

Snippet: Beijing's massive trade project has slowed in the past 18 months as overseas lending drops and the value of new construction projects declines

The growth of Beijing's Belt and Road Initiative slowed significantly over the past 18 months as the country's overseas lending flattened out and the value of new overseas construction projects declined, research has shown, supporting existing theories about the decline of President Xi Jinping's signature trade development plan.

Body: 
The value of new projects spread across 61 countries ­involved in the plan fell 13 per cent to US$126 billion last year compared to 2017, with the figure falling a further 6.7 per cent up to August this year, according to a report by Gavekal Dragonomics. Existing contracts also dropped 4.2 per cent over the first eight months.

This was, in part, because of the level of funds available to ­invest in other countries had fallen sharply. An International Monetary Fund report in July showed that China's current account surplus had dropped to close to zero for the first time since 2012.

In addition, state banks had become more cautious about lending to projects under the strategy. Some participating countries, including Myanmar, Sierra Leone and Tanzania, are also reluctant to borrow large sums of money owing to debt fears, while some have reduced planned borrowings or even ­cancelled unaffordable projects, the Gavekal Dragonomics report said.

China committed to making only two belt and road-related loans of more than US$1 billion in the first half - US$1.2 billion to Egypt and US$2.5 billion to Pakistan, according to the report.

"On the one hand, tighter financing and more stringent project controls are forcing ­Chinese construction firms to be more circumspect," said Tom Miller, a senior Asia analyst at Gavekal Dragonomics and author of the report.

"On the other hand, host countries are becoming more careful about agreeing to ­Chinese-sponsored projects, as they seek to avoid becoming financially tethered to Beijing."

Overall, according to the China Global Investment Tracker from the American Enterprise Institute, China made 46 loans of more than US$1 billion for overseas investment projects in 2016, with that figure dropping to 28 last year.

Xi launched the project to build infrastructure to connect China with East Asia, Africa and Europe in September 2013.

The initiative has since been a vehicle for the world's second-largest economy to shift some of its excess manufacturing capacity in steel, cement and other ­building materials to developing economies.

This has also helped to offset the slowing of its own economy, with investment in and financing for the projects ­dominated by state-owned enterprises (SOEs).

China's cumulative investment in initiative countries has exceeded US$100 billion, with the value of the construction projects alone worth more than US$720 billion, vice-commerce minister Qian Keming said last month.

The country has signed more than 190 cooperation documents with over 160 countries and international organisations and has jointly established 82 overseas ­industrial estates, according to Wu Haitao, China's deputy ­permanent representative to the United Nations.

However, in the first half of the year, mainland investment and construction activity around the world fell more than 50 per cent compared to last year, while new projects under the plan dropped sharply, according to a report published in July by Derek ­Scissors, resident scholar at the China Global Investment Tracker.

Scissors said Chinese SOEs were still moving car and steel ­capacity overseas and building new motorways and cement plants in developing economies, but that was now "on a smaller scale" compared to the 2016 investment peak.

"The principal explanation is that fear of balance of payments and exchange rate weakness has caused rationing of the hard ­currency used to make investments and finance construction," Scissors said.

Amid mounting scepticism over the plan, Xi stressed at the Belt and Road Initiative Forum in April that infrastructure construction had to be "high-quality, ­sustainable, resilient, affordable, inclusive and accessible".

China has also recognised that some projects under the plan were leading to excessive levels of debt for the developing countries involved, and pledged to improve the sustainability of nations that had received large amounts of ­investment quickly.

"The crucial issue to watch is how these announced measures could be implemented in ­practice," said Alex He, a research ­fellow at the Centre for International Governance Innovation think tank in Canada.

"It is not going to be a smooth process, as political considerations and the soft budget constraints and guaranteed government bailouts for Chinese SOEs and state-owned banks will continue to foster the existing problems and risks and thus stand in the way of improving debt ­sustainability," he said.

Headline of the Online Version: China slimming down Belt and Road Initiative as new project value plunges in last 18 months, report shows