Source: Pakistan Press International Information Services
Publisher: Pakistan Press International Information Services
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Press International Information Services 
Publication Date: May 26, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Dipl: (China lauds Pakistan's constructive approach, new initiatives for regional peace)

Snippet: Pakistan and China while reaffirming their 'All-Weather Strategic Cooperative Partnership' have resolved to further strengthen bilateral relations in all spheres including political, economic, trade and people-to-people exchanges.

The bilateral ties were discussed during delegation-level talks between Prime Minister Imran Khan and the visiting Chinese Vice President Wang Qishan here in Islamabad.

Body: 
The two leaders exchanged views on the entire gamut of bilateral relations.

Reiterating Pakistan's unwavering commitment to China-Pakistan Economic Corridor, Prime Minister Imran Khan highlighted the extension of CPEC into new areas of agriculture, industrial development, and socio-economic uplift.

He also stressed the importance of further deepening bilateral economic and commercial interaction, industrial collaboration and China's investment in Pakistan's Special Economic Zones.

The Chinese Vice President reiterated his country's strong support for the agenda of socio-economic uplift and people-centered development. He also expressed satisfaction at the increasing momentum of bilateral engagement between the two countries.

The two sides also exchanged views on regional situation, including recent developments in South Asia.

Wang Qishan lauded Pakistan's constructive approach and new initiatives for forging peaceful and cooperative relations in the neighborhood.

He also expressed China's appreciation for Pakistan's sustained and successful efforts in the fight against terrorism and reaffirmed steadfast support in this regard.

Meanwhile, Prime Minister Imran Khan and Chinese Vice President Wang Qishan launched four mega development projects in the fields of energy, technology and education under China Pakistan Economic Corridor.

Under the first project, a transmission line of 660 KV would be laid between Matiari and Lahore to transmit power from coal based plants located at Thar, Port Qasim and Hub.

The two leaders unveiled the plaque for Rashakai Special Economic Zone project to promote industrialization through world-class industrial infrastructure in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.

Another project inaugurated by the two leaders was the Confucius Institute at Punjab University. The institute mainly provides Chinese education, cultural promotion and exchanges and other activities.

The ceremony also marked the launching of Huawei Technical Support Center to be established in Pakistan as part of Chinese tech giant's commitment to make massive investment in Pakistan.