Source: Emirates News Agency (WAM)
Publisher: The Emirates News Agency
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019, Emirates News Agency (WAM), All rights Reserved - Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.. 
Publication Date: Feb 07, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,saarab,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,gulfstz,indsubz,meastz,sasiaz,wasiaz,

Title: Pakistan turns to ally China for $2.5 b Loan

Snippet: Pakistan`s financial woes are far from over despite support from Saudi Arabia and the UAE, forcing Islamabad to turn to its all-weather ally China for a loan of $2.5 billion (nearly Rs 18,000 crore).

China has agreed to provide the money to help Pakistan boost its official foreign exchange reserves, which are not sufficient to provide cover for even two months of imports despite receiving $4 billion of loans from Saudi Arabia and the UAE, ET has learnt.

Body: 
China has emerged as Pakistans largest saviour in times of economic crisis in the past five years. With the latest tranche, Chinas support to Pakistan in this fiscal year alone would surge to $4.5 billion. Last July, China had lent $2 billion to the State Bank of Pakistan, which is that countrys central bank.

In the last fiscal year (2017-18), Pakistan had obtained $2.2 billion from three Chinese commercial banks China Development Bank, ICBC China and Bank of China apart from getting $1.8 billion from Beijing on a bilateral basis.

The Chinese money is coming as part of the governments strategy to have support till the time its macroeconomic situation stabilises, people tracking the financing deals told ET.

After coming into power, Prime Minister Imran Khan had visited China, Saudi Arabia and the UAE to arrange emergency loans to avoid a default. Pakistan has secured $14.5 billion of commitments from these three countries that have largely helped bridge its external financing gap in the ongoing fiscal year.

Saudi Arabia has agreed to provide a $6-billion financial assistance package, which includes $3 billion in short-term loans at an interest rate of 3.18%. The UAE has agreed to provide $3 billion at an interest rate of around 3% and has already disbursed $1 billion. A $3.2 billion of oil facility on deferred payment is also being awaited.

But despite $4 billion inflows from Riyadh and the UAE in past two months, the gross official foreign currency reserves stayed at only $8.12 billion as of December 25, according the State Bank of Pakistan. This is sufficient to cover just seven weeks of imports and is below the minimum level that the International Monetary Fund and World Bank prescribe. Due to this, the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank are not providing loans for budget financing.

Pakistan has also borrowed heavily from China for various projects under the China-Pak-Economic Corridor (CPEC), the flagship project under BRI.

China has become the biggest lender to Pakistan after surpassing Japan. Pakistan owes $19 billion (a fifth of its total debt) to China. The CPEC loans will add $14 billion to Pakistans total public debt, raising it to $90 billion by June 2019, abating its economic ability to service huge amount of debt, said experts.

According to experts calculation, Pakistan will have to payback $100 billion to China by 2024 of total investment of $18.5 billion, which China has provided as bank loans for 19 early-harvest projects, mostly relating to the energy sector under the CPEC.