Source: The Frontier Post
Publisher: The Frontier Post
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. The Frontier Post 
Publication Date: Mar 26, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,islama,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: PM Imran Khan to launch 'Ghurbat Mitao Program' today

Snippet: Prime Minister (PM) Imran Khan is all set to launch 'Ghurbat Mitao Program' in Islamabad on Wednesday (today).

The inauguration ceremony is scheduled to be held at the Convention Centre in Islamabad.

Body: 
According to reports, Around Rs120 billion has been allocated for a big expansion of the program entitled 'Ehsaas aur Kifalat' (care and support) with a primary objective of alleviating poverty across the country, and development.

While talking to local news channel, Dr Sania Nishtar, chairperson of Benazir Income Support Program (BISP), will inform about the details of the program during the ceremony.

The PM has already approved the program in a meeting with Dr Sania Nishtar, chairperson of Benazir Income Support Program.

During a meeting with Dr Nishtar on Tuesday, the PM said the government has been taking effective measures for eliminating poverty.

The care for people is the utmost priority of the government,' he stated, adding that they [the government] would mobilize all available resources to alleviate poverty.

Acknowledging the advice and guidance of China, the prime minister said, 'We have learnt from our China visit how they did the historic job of bringing 700 million people out of poverty in just three decades.'

According to sources, welfare projects like Pakistan Baitul Maal, Zakat and Usher and Benazir Income Support Program would be merged into the organization.

He had issued directives for a close coordination among different programs working to cope with the poverty alleviation challenges.

Sources further informed that through poverty alleviation program, financial assistance will be provided to widows, orphaned, transgender and elderly persons.

In November last year, the premier said that a model similar to the one in China could be formulated and implemented in Pakistan.