Source: The Express Tribune
Publisher: The Express Tribune
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. The Express Tribune News Network. 
Publication Date: Feb 02, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: K-P CM says Rashakai special economic zone will be set up on priority basis

Snippet: Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Chief Minister Mahmood Khan has said that establishment of Rashakai special economic zone will be made possible on priority basis.

He directed that all legal aspects should be examined for the early completion of Rashakai special economic zone, so as to present it in the next cabinet meeting for further decision. He said that provision of all facilities to foreign Investors especially Chinese investors would be provided on priority basis. He further directed that the concerned departments should hold a meeting with the finance minister for future strategy in this regard, for further concrete decisions in the next cabinet meeting.

Body: 
This he said while presiding over a meeting regarding to discuss model being with CRBC for Rashakai special economic zone at Chief Minister Secretariat Peshawar. Advisor to Chief Minister on Industries and Commerce Abdul Karim Torghar, SSU Head Sahibzada Saeed, Chief Executive KP EZDMC, concerned administrative secretaries and others attended the meeting.

The chief minister said that all possible support and facilities would be provided to Chinese investors for economic activities in the province.

Khan added that with the completion Rashakai special economic zone the economy will boost and will also provide jobs in the province. He directed the concerned departments should coordinate with each other and play their positive role for the early completion of Rashakai special economic zone.

The chief minister directed that keeping all legal and codal aspects of the project in mind a complete strategy should be presented to him regarding the early completion of RSEZ and other matters with CRBC.

He said that the strategy would be presented in the next cabinet meeting for concrete decisions. The CM said that the provincial government will leave no stone unturned for economic stability of the province. Establishment of industrial zones in other districts of the province is also the priority of provincial government.

Chief Minister said that all investors would be facilitated to give easy access to Rashakai special economic zone and all other industrial zones in the province. He said that the provincial government is trying to establish a network of industrial zones in the province for the economic stability and self-reliance of the province so that the local communities could get jobs and other business facilities.

Dassu Hydro Power Project

Chief Minister Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Mahmood Khan and Federal Minister for Water Resources Faisal Vawda jointly chaired the 12th project steering committee meeting on Dassu Hydro Power Project in the committee room of ministry of water resources, Islamabad. The meeting was also attended by Adviser to K-P Chief Minister on Energy and Power Himayatullah Khan and K-P Secretary for Energy and Power Muhammad Salim

The progress of land acquisition was discussed. SMBR KPK briefed the forum and it was decided that committee under the chairmanship of Hazara division commissioner including DC Kohistan, GM Dassu HPP and MPA, with consultation of affectees will submit report by February 10, 2019. The project steering committee will immediately hold meeting on receipt of the report, tentatively by February 13,2019.

The Chief Minister while underlining the importance and need of this project has assured all out support and facilitation in the acquisition of land and other related issues. 'Rapid completion of this project was priority and need of hour', he remarked.