Source: Daily Balochistan Express
Publisher: Asianet-Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Daily Balochistan Express, Quetta 
Publication Date: Apr 28, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Never been as easy to invest in Pakistan as it is now: PM Imran

Snippet: Asianet Pakistan Private Limited

Prime Minister Imran Khan on Sunday underscored the improved ease of doing business in Pakistan to potential investors. The premier addressed Pakistan-China Trade and Investment Forum held on the sidelines of the Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation in Beijing.

Body: 
"It has never been as easy to invest in Pakistan as it is right now," he told the audience comprising Chinese businessmen. The premier stressed that the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) had transformed into a strategic partnership between Pakistan and China.

Originally a network of roads and a few power projects the CPEC now encompassed various areas of mutual cooperation, he said. "Chinese help in seed development and agriculture development will help increase our agricultural productivity manifold.

If we can raise the productivity of agriculture that in itself will propel Pakistan's growth rate to a point where we can raise the standard of living." Apart from the agriculture sectors, PM Imran said he discussed cooperations in multiple fields during meetings with President Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang.

"The Chinese premier and I talked about getting help from Beijing in the field of science and technology." He expressed intent to set up an elite university covering at least eight areas in which China has excelled including artificial intelligence and information technology.

"With a young population 60 per cent of Pakistan's population is below the age of 30 Pakistan can use China's help." PM Imran invited Chinese businesses to visit Pakistan and explore investment opportunities.

He added that the PTI government was offering incentives to the Chinese business community and improving ease of doing business. Prime Minister said the new government is giving incentives to Chinese businessmen and is also improving ease of doing business.

PM Imran invited Chinese businesses to visit Pakistan and explore investment opportunities. He added that the PTI government was offering incentives to the Chinese business community and improving ease of doing business.

Prime Minister said the new government is giving incentives to Chinese businessmen and is also improving ease of doing business. "This is an area which could involve more countries.

I feel other countries will join this because this is the future: the cooperation, connectivity between countries. More subjects will be taken in this forum.

" Imran tapped Climate Change as one topic all delegations expressed concern over. Pakistan is among the countries expected to be worst hit by the global warming.

He said the country has taken steps to survive and cited the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf's (PTI) Billion Tree Tsunami Project. On regional peace, the prime minister underscored that peace in Afghanistan will help increase connectivity between Islamabad and Central Asia.

He said Pakistan was playing its part in the peace process by bringing the Taliban, United States and Afghan government on the negotiating table to facilitate peace in the war-torn country. The premier also expressed a desire for better ties with the eastern neighbour.

He hoped that the anti-Pakistan rhetoric will end once the Indian elections are over and there is no politics over votes. Imran said Islamabad wanted a civilized relationship with New Delhi and sought to resolve the Kashmir conflict through dialogue.