Source: Business Recorder
Publisher: Emmay Zed Publications (Private) Ltd
Byline: AMJAD ALI SHAH 
Copyright: © 2019 Business Recorder. All Rights Reserved. 
Publication Date: Jan 29, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Four skilled training centres to be set up under CPEC in KP

Snippet: Four major skilled training centres will be established under the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.

Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Technical Training and Vocational Authority, Managing Director, Sajjad Ali Shah told media persons here on Tuesday that a study is being launched by Pakistan Institute of Development Economics (PIDE) regarding the establishment of CPEC specific skilled training centres.

Body: 
He added the four centres will be established in Peshawar as well as north and south regions of KP.

Similarly, he said the authority is also planned to construct a training machinery institute under the CPEC at Yar Hussain, near Peshawar Motorway, for which 170-kanal land to be acquired. He added that a total cost of Rs 200 million has been estimated for the project, which is still in a pre-mature stage. However, he hoped that the project feasibility report would be completed in this year.

In a bid to capitalise on the impending Chinese cash and trade influx in the province, the official said that the KP TEVTA had signed agreements to enhance technical education linkages with China. In the initial phase, he said KP government has started offering short courses in the Chinese language at technical institute, while the training program will begin to impart training in various trades.

Similarly, the official said Chinese authorities have agreed to give training to more than one lakh people belonging to Khyber Pakhtunkhwa in various trades under an internship programme as per agreement.

He further said KP TEVTA has planned to establish more than seven training centres with indigenous funds in D I Khan, Bannu, Kohat, Mardan, Peshawar, Abbottabad and Haripur.

Unfortunately, he said KP region is lagging behind in technical education due to lack of interest by previous regimes.

He stressed the need for market-based skilled training to workforce, especially working in Gulf countries.

Talking about the 100-day performance, MD KP TEVTA said that the authority was trying to promote technical and vocational education and training in cooperation with local business and industries.

He said more than 76 institute management committees had formed, aimed at to develop strong linkages with industries in the province.