Source: The Balochistan Times
Publisher: Asianet-Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 The Balochistan Times 
Publication Date: Jan 07, 2019

Region Codes: ,punjab,pakis,china,laho,shand,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,india,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Huaneng Shandong Ruyi delegation calls on CM Punjab

Snippet: A Chinese delegation led by Mr. Wang Xu President of Huaneng Shandong Ruyi called on Punjab Chief Minister Sardar Usman Buzdar at his office here on Monday.

Talking on the occasion, the chief minister said that bilateral relations between Pakistan and China were touching new heights, adding that China had always sided with Pakistan in every difficult situation.

Body: 
'We appreciate Chinese investment in Pakistan as a number of projects, which have been started in collaboration with China, are running successfully', he said.

Meanwhile, investment environment has been boosted further due to the multi-billion dollar CPEC project, he added.

The chief minister said the best investment opportunities were available in Punjab, adding that provincial government would provide all the necessary facilities to the Chinese companies that would make investment in the Punjab.

'We will welcome the investment of Chinese company in energy and other sectors,' he added. He congratulated the delegation on the advent of new Chinese year.

Mr. Wang Xu said that Huaneng Shandong Ruyi would setup its office in Punjab and hoped that new investment opportunities would be created as a result of it. 'We want to expand cooperation in textile and other sectors as well,' he added.

He also briefed the chief minister about company's performance and its projects' details. The delegation also extended an invitation to the chief minister to visit Shandong.

Vice President Huaneng Shandong Liu Jie, CEO Sahiwal Coal Power Plant Mr. Song Taji, CEO Ruyi Group Li Aiying were included in the delegation. Chairman P and D, Principal Secretary to CM, Secretary Energy, MD Punjab Power Development Board and others were also present in the meeting.