Source: Frontier Star
Publisher: Frontier Star Publisher
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 Asianet-Pakistan 
Publication Date: May 15, 2019

Region Codes: ,india,pakis,asiaz,bric,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Qureshi seeks PPP, PML-N support for South Punjab bill

Snippet: Foreign Minister Makhdoom Shah Mahmood Qureshi said on Wednesday the government has introduced the South Punjab bill in the National Assembly, adding that the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) and Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) should help to get it passed.

During a news conference in Multan, Qureshi said the bill moved by the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) government would require amendments in Articles 1, 51, 59,106,198,218 of the Constitution. 'We have to make the amendments to make South Punjab province a reality.'

Body: 
The minister added that the PTI government had contacted Pakistan PPP and will contact other parties in Parliament over the South Punjab province as two-thirds majority was required.

'I have contacted senior Parliamentarians from PPP as they also had the stance for South Punjab…I have told them to work together to make this a reality and have received a positive response from them.'

The minister said several members of the PML-N supported South Punjab province but there were others who were stuck on the bill they had presented in the past. 'We will also speak to the PML-N and I will request them to review their decision and let South Punjab be formed. They [PML-N] need to be practical as a province of three districts is not possible.'

Under its Constitution (Amendment) Bill, the government has defined what areas will come in South Punjab. The bill proposes changes in several articles of the Constitution.

According to the bill, South Punjab province will comprise Multan division, Bahawalpur division and Dera Ghazi Khan division. The province will have a separate assembly and seats in the Senate.

The South Punjab Assembly will have 120 seats - 95 directly elected and 22 indirectly elected and three seats of minorities. The Punjab Assembly's seats will be reduced to 251 from 371.

The province will also have its own separate high court and chief justice. Its principal seat will be in Multan but it will still have divisional benches in other major cities. The governor will decide where these benches will be.

Qureshi said that he has spoken to the PPP about the bill and asked for their support because he knows a separate province in South Punjab has been one of their longtime goals as well. I got a positive response, he said, adding that at the next National Assembly meeting Khursheed Shah, Naveed Qamar and Raja Pervaiz Ashraf will discuss the issue.

The PTI also wants to discuss this will other like-minded parties, said Qureshi. He appealed to their 'friends' in the PML-N to also support the cause.

To a question, Foreign Minister said that entire nation and political parties are united on having minimum deterrence, Kashmir issue and CPEC project.

He said that conspiracies are being made to spoil Pak China relations but they will not succeed.

He said that issue of marriages of some Chinese in Pakistan will be solved soon as both foreign offices are working on it.

To another question about the recent announced Amnesty Scheme, he said that scheme has not been launched to generate revenue as per the past schemes but it has been aimed to expand tax base and make economy documented.

Makhdoom Shah Mehmood Qureshi responding to another question said that no international institution is ready to finance this project worth billion dollars and we have not own resources.