Source: Pakistan Observer
Publisher: Pakistan Observer
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Observer 
Publication Date: May 02, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: NRO to corrupts tantamount to treason: Imran Performs groundbreaking of Mohmand dam along with Ex-CJ Saqib Nisar, COAS

Snippet: Stating that a country is destroyed by the theft of its leaders not the common man, Prime Minister Imran Khan on Thursday declared that the provision of National Reconciliation Ordinance (NRO) to the corrupt elements will be tantamount to committing treason.

Addressing an impressive ceremony after performing the ground-breaking of Mohmand Dam in Ghalanai the headquarters of Mohmand tribal district, the Prime Minister resolved to fix the country's economic issues saying long lasting peace has been restored in the country and that will attract the investors to initiate big ventures in Pakistan. 'There cannot be investment in any country until there is peace. People want to invest in Pakistan because they think peace has been restored here. Unemployment will begin to decrease when there is investment in the country'. Imran opined adding investors are coming to the country and their confidence in Pakistan has enhanced.

Body: 
The ceremony besides former Chief Justice Saqib Nisar and Army Chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa, was also attended Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Governor Shah Farman, Chief Minister Mahmood Khan, Defense Minister Pervez Khattak, Federal Minister for Water Resources Faisal Vawda, Federal Minister for Religious Affairs, Pir Noorul Haq Qadri, parliamentarians and Wapda official.

The premier who performed the ground breaking of Mohmand dam along with the former Chief Justice Saqib Nisar and Army Chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa, thanked ex-CJP Nisar for raising awareness about the country's water crisis and the need to build dams.

'Then successive governments had failed in thinking about the future of Pakistan. This compelled Chief Justice of the country to raise the issue which should have been done by the Prime minister and government. I want to thank Justice Saqib Nisar for this'. Imran observed.

Prime Minister Imran said underdeveloped areas of the country including the tribal belt had been left behind due to the failure of past governments in making effective planning for those areas. 'China has progressed because its leadership does not think about winning the election, rather it thinks about planning for the future of the country, China has spent resources on humans besides focusing on public welfare. The State of Medina is the role model for us. China followed the same policies adopted in the Medina state'. PM observed.

Imran was all praise for Pakistan armed forces for playing a vital role to eliminate terrorism from the tribal belt and restoring lasting peace in the region in particular and the country in general. 'People don't invest in war zones, but now all are moving heads towards Pakistan to make investments. Peace has been established here with the help of tribesmen and Pakistani troops who have rendered matchless sacrifices to achieve this goal.' He maintained.

The premier said that the government was well aware of issues being faced by tribesmen, as well as water crisis which he reasoned due to the shortage of dams and would resolve all issues on priority bases. Imran Khan announced allocation of Rs4 billion funds for the development of Mohmand adding 'The area which possesses natural resources will be given benefits of it.' He further said that the government has decided to provide 2G and 3G technologies to the tribal areas besides taking swift steps for education facilities. Imran lamented that all bigger dams were constructed in 1960's era which was the time of dictatorship but they should be given credit for constructions of dams.

He was of the view that the previous governments mercilessly failed to adopt futuristic projects as a result of which other countries of the region left behind Pakistan in the development race. He exampled China for its historical development which did not think of next elections whiles its leaders had focused on future projects.

Earlier, the Chairman Wapda Lt Gen (Retd) Muzamil Hussein and project director of the dam briefed the prime minister about salient features of the project.