Source: Business Recorder
Publisher: Emmay Zed Publications (Private) Ltd
Byline: RECORDER REPORT 
Copyright: © 2019 Business Recorder. All Rights Reserved. 
Publication Date: Mar 13, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,punjab,asiaz,bric,devgcoz,dvpcoz,india,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Punjab to take lead by launching first-ever hybrid housing system

Snippet: The province of Punjab is expected to take lead on Prime Minister's housing initiatives by introducing Pakistan's first-ever hybrid housing system. According to sources, Punjab government authorities have already studied the concept of hybrid housing system and are eagerly working to launch it in Punjab soon. Renowned Chinese firm, Sunrise Shouguang Construction and Engineering Co Ltd, who are among the pioneers of hybrid housing system in the world, are being invited for further discussions to finalise the launch date.

Several renowned Chinese firms including Sunrise Shouguang Construction and Engineering Co Ltd and Yangzhou Borui Electric Co Ltd are the subsidiaries of Shourguang Business Group. This group owns several firms in China, Europe and USA and have businesses in more than 17 countries of the world.

Body: 
Shouguang Business Group had shown its interest to join hands with Punjab government to fulfill the Prime Minister's commitment of five million housing units. On the basis of company's interest and on the evaluation of their proposal, it has now been decided to launch Pakistan's first ever hybrid housing system.

Company's delegation is expected to arrive in Pakistan this month to sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU). Punjab Board of Investment and Trade and Punjab Housing and Physical Planning Department have played a vital role to launch "Naya Pakistan model apartments", hence to launch in Pakistan a first-ever hybrid housing project.

PBIT has initiated talks with a gigantic Chinese business group and they are expecting several billion US dollars worth of investment by the firm in Pakistani infrastructure and engineering projects, after the launch of Naya Pakistan model apartments' scheme. Sources also mentioned that the company will be signing a financial grant MoU with Punjab government for betterment of Punjab government publically run hospitals. Authorities are expecting the announcement of a financial grant worth Rs 1.25 billion for purchase of select hospital machines in the interest of public welfare at public sector hospitals, by the company officials, during their visit this month.

This grant shows the interest of Shouguang Business Group in development of Pakistan and their plans to become the key players of the small housing construction industry sector soon. Locations for Naya Pakistan model apartments' scheme, have not yet been formally disclosed for hybrid houses construction, but they are presumed to be located near aborts of Lahore, Faisalabad, Gujranwala, Multan, Sialkot and Okara. These hybrid styled constructed accommodations will be a world class constructed system for low cost housing.

As per sources, hybrid housing system will be a complete package which includes free electricity, premium water supply, sewage treatment and solid waste management facilities to residents. Once launched in Pakistan hybrid housing system will be the best option to buy residential flats on easy monthly installments, as on occupying the accommodations the residents will not have to worry about paying hefty electricity bills.

Prices of hybrid housing flats have not been announced as yet but according to the sources, the flats will be priced between 20-25 years electricity bill only. They will remain the lowest priced in the Pakistani market, in their class of construction.