Source: Pakistan Official News
Publisher: Asianet-Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: (c) 2019. AsiaNet-Pakistan 
Publication Date: Nov 03, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Chairman Senate Muhammad Sadiq Sanjrani says that Gwadar is gateway to happiness and prosperity - Press Note issued by Senate of Pakistan

Snippet: November 04, 2019 (PPI-OT)

Following is the text of press note issued by Senate of Pakistan

Body: 
Quote

Chairman Senate Muhammad Sadiq Sanjrani has said that Gwadar is gateway to happiness and prosperity of not only Pakistan but the whole region. He expressed these views while addressing participants of opening ceremony of different project related to energy, Gwadar Port Authority Commercial project and expansion of Government Faqeer Colony Middle school projects. He said that Pakistan and China have been making tremendous progress in forging regional partnership towards achieving the shared ideals of peace, stability and development.

He observed that the development of the Gwadar Port Authority Commercial Complex will turn into the business hub for all commercial activity in the region and it will turn this city into a hub of international trade and boost trade activities in the country. Calling himself a native of Province of Balochistan he said that seeing Gwadar turning into a major port city of the future gives me immense pride and satisfaction and even more heartening is the fact that the numerous projects under CPEC will continue to attract investment and development in Gwadar for many years to come.

Inaugurating the projects which Pakistan China Government Faqeer Colony Middle School Expansion Project, The Gwadar 300 MW Coal-based Power Project and the Gwadar Port Authority Commercial Complex Project he expressed gratitude and said that The Faqir Colony Primary School was developed with help from China, and thus laid the foundation of providing quality education to the local children.

He underscored the need to fulfil the energy crises and observed that 300 MW coal power plant in Gwadar is another milestone achievement by China and Pakistan and the power plant will provide the much-needed energy resource required for development in Gwadar. He also expressed that these three achievements are only a beginning of a long series of planned and ongoing projects that will complement the CPEC.

This will grant Pakistan and China the opportunity for sustainable and long-term economic development. He said that the 4000 solar energy facilities being donated by China will prove to be very beneficial for the district, and will be instrumental in meeting its energy needs. He appreciated the joint efforts for the socio-economic prosperity of the region and said thanks to Embassy of China for deciding to donate 700 school uniforms for the China-Pakistan Faqeer Colony School.

For more information, contact:Senate of PakistanTel: +92-51-9204564534Fax: +92-51-9205703H.No.7, Cat-II, G-8/2,Islamabad, PakistanE-mail: senate@comsats.net.pkWebsite: www.senate.gov.pk

Unquote