Source: Daily Balochistan Express
Publisher: Asianet-Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Daily Balochistan Express, Quetta 
Publication Date: Apr 20, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,malay,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,seasiaz,

Title: Malaysian and Chinese evinces interest in Naya Pakistan housing project: PM

Snippet: Asianet Pakistan Private Limited

QUETTA: Prime Minister Imran Khan has said that government will be introduced comprehensive laws in the country, so the people could get loans from the commercial banks on soft condition for the construction of their houses. Speaking at the foundation laying ceremony of launching Pakistan Housing Project in Balochistan, here on Sunday, he said that getting shelter on the heads is a big achievement for a poor person and the government will provide all help and facilities to the people in the construction of their houses as it had launched Naya Pakistan Housing Project for those who could not construct their own houses.

Body: 
The Prime Minister Imran Khan has laid foundation stone of the housing project in ceremony held in the Balochistan University of Information Technology, Engineering and Management Sciences. Governor Balochistan Justice (Retd) Amanullah Yasinzai, Chief Minister Jam Kamal Khan, federal ministers MS.

Zubaida Jalal, Basher Cheema provincial ministers and MPAs and senior officials attended the ceremony. Prime Minister Imran Khan said that State Bank of Pakistan is also encouraging commercial banks to disburse more housing soft loans to the people.

He said that in other countries, a person who gets loans to build homes is quite high in comparison with Pakistan. He said that with starting construction of houses in the county around 40 industries would come in production and will get jobs.

"Many companies from Malaysia and China are interested in investing in the housing Naya Pakistan Housing project," Imran Khan said, adding the government determined to provide roof to the people and vowed to achieve target of constructing 50 lac houses in the country. Mr.

Khan once again strongly criticized PML-N and PPP government claimed that the country was badly looted in last 10 years. He said that no nation could progress unless the corrupt elements would not brought to the justice, adding that even enemies not do what Sharifs and Zardari families did with the country.

They took foreign loans and shifted country's wealth abroad after looting. He said that it is first time in last 70 years the present government arrested big dacoits and sent them in jail.

He said that earlier only poor's had sent jail. "In Musharraf government, I' myself was in jail where I found poor people in the Jail," Mr.

Khan said. PM Khan said that those who looted national wealthy through coming in to the assemblies would not be spared and would be made them an example by punishing them.

He said that though party not succeeded in the election in Balochistan but he will take all steps for the development of Balochistan. "PTI government is committed uplift of Balochistan and to make it at par with other developed component of the country.

" He said that the in the country had gets 6 thousands billion loans which was increased by 30 thousands billion in last 10 years. He the federal governments collect over 4 thousands billion revenue out of which 2 thousands billion pays on loans.

He said that Pakistan will develop when the weak segments of the society are cared for by the state, No nation can progress unless corrupt elements are brought to justice. He said that more opportunities will be created for the Youth, so that they will be able to start construction companies to benefit from the housing boom.

He urges the youth to start their own businesses and become entrepreneurs rather than looking at the government for jobs. Emphasizing on the importance of a master plan for Quetta, the prime minister said basic civic services can be ensured only when the cities are planned and organized.

It is important to make a master plan for Quetta or it will keep expanding. Jam Kamal and I will work for the province.

Balochistan is lucky they have a chief minister such as Jam Kamal Khan. Imran khan further said that, He as Prime Minister responsible for every person in this country.

We have to help Balochistan and take the country forward. Under the Naya Pakistan Housing Program 135,000 housing units will be built across the country in the first phase.

25,000 apartments will be built in Islamabad for federal government employees and 110,000 apartments will be constructed in Balochistan, mainly for the fishermen of Gwadar.