Source: Business Recorder
Publisher: Emmay Zed Publications (Private) Ltd
Byline: MUSHTAQ GHUMMAN 
Copyright: © 2019 Business Recorder. All Rights Reserved. 
Publication Date: Apr 22, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: CPFTA-II likely to get approval today

Snippet: The federal cabinet to approve China Pakistan Free Trade Agreement -II ( CPFTA-II) on Tuesday (today), according to which both countries have agreed on liberalization of 75 percent tariff lines and 90 percent trade value, well-informed sources in Commerce Division told Business Recorder.

The CPFTA-II will be signed during the forthcoming visit of Prime Minister, Imran Khan. Prime Minister's Advisor on Commerce, Textile, Industries and Production and Investment, Abdul Razak Dawood will also accompany him. The source said, both sides agreed that in category -1(EIF) Pakistan and China would liberalize 45 percentage of tariff lines with immediate effect; category 2-15 percentage tariff lines will be liberalized in 2-7 years by Pakistan and 1-5 years by China and category 3-15 percentage tariff lines by Pakistan in 4-15 years and 1-10 years by China. For Pakistan percentage of trade value would be 67 percent whereas for China percentage of trade value would be 90 percent.

Body: 
According to the agreement, partial reduction of 20 percent Margin of Preference (MOP) will be on 3.3 percentage tariff lines from Entry into Force for Pakistan and China each whereas the remaining 1.7 percentage tariff lines of 20 percent MOP will be effective from January 2022. For Pakistan, MOP and sensitive tariff lines will be for 33 percentage of trade value whereas it will be 10 percentage of trade value for China.

Tariff on remaining 20 percentage lines for both countries will remain the same as is in the first phase. Regarding responsiveness to Pakistan's 65 tariff line request list from 313 items, China agreed to prioritized 57 tariff lines on EIF, whereas, eight agriculture tariff lines excluded. Regarding remaining 256 tariff lines EIF, six tariff lines have been replaced with six new tariff lines.

China has also agreed to give unilateral concessions to Pakistan on 313 items. In addition, Pakistan will also seek market access of additional $ 1 billion .