Source: BBC Monitoring South Asia
Publisher: The British Broadcasting Corporation
Byline: 
Copyright: (c) 2019 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation. 
Publication Date: Mar 26, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,dalian,liaon,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Pakistan, China to hold investment summit 30 March

Snippet: Text of report in English by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP) on 26 March

ISLAMABAD, Mar 26 (APP):A day-long first IEC [International Entrepreneurs Corridor] Pakistan-China investment summit to update the Chinese entrepreneurs about the investment-friendly climate in Pakistan will be held on Sunday [31 March] in Dalian, China.

Body: 
"Over 150 potential Chinese companies and investors, as well as 20 Pakistani companies, government, and media personnel, will attend the event," Felpa Global Consultants (FGC) Chief Adnan Hafeez told APP here on Tuesday [26 March].

During the first half of the summit, Pakistani and local government officials will deliver key speeches about investment opportunities, policies, and incentive offered by the present government in Pakistan.

In the second half, there will be a forum for mutual discussion followed by company to company or investors to government meeting sessions enabling the interested parties to work on some real projects.

The organisers will arrange a visit of potential companies and investors to Pakistan in the coming month to view the investment opportunities there.

"The summit will provide a platform to the potential investors for the exchange of ideas and discussion about the policies of Pakistan as well as the promotion of investment opportunities offered in recent years in Pakistan," he said.

About the launch of "International Entrepreneurs Corridor (IEC)" which is named after CPEC [China-Pakistan Economic Corridor], he informed that it is providing an opportunity to the young graduates from all over the world to start their entrepreneurship with one window services by acting as a bridge, connecting them with the government and investors.

The project has been approved by the municipal government of Dalian, Human Resource and Social Security Bureau of Dalian and other relevant departments.

Since its launching, IEC has successfully incubated more than 10 entrepreneur projects from all over the world including Pakistan, US, France and Canada, he added.

Adnan Hafeez claimed that FGC has brought Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) of over US$ 50 million to Pakistan in the past three years.

Dalian Municipal Government, Pakistan Chamber of Commerce in China Initiating Committee, Peking University, Pakistan China Research Institute, Liaoning Federation of Chambers of Commerce, China Council for Promotion of International Trade (CCPIT), Returned Overseas Chinese Federation, Dalian Bureau of Investment and over 20 local chambers and associations will support the event, he added.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency in English 0552 gmt 26 Mar 19