Source: Frontier Star
Publisher: Frontier Star Publisher
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 Asianet-Pakistan 
Publication Date: May 26, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: President confers Nishan-e-Pakistan on Chinese Vice President

Snippet: President Dr. Arif Alvi conferred Nishan-e-Pakistan award to visiting Chinese Vice President Wang Qishan in recognition of his services in promoting Pak China relations at an impressive ceremony held at President House on Sunday.

Nishan-e-Pakistan is the highest civil award that is granted for the highest degree of service to the country and nation of Pakistan.

Body: 
The ceremony was attended by Chairman Senate, services chiefs, cabinet members, MNAs and foreign dignitaries.

Wang Qishan is a great friend of Pakistan and ardent supporter of Pak-China Friendship. He played a pivotal role in spearheading the revolutionary agenda of President Xi Jinping.

Earlier in the day Vice President of China Wang Qishan arrived in Islamabad on a three-day official visit to Pakistan.

Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi and othe high officials received him at Noor Khan Airbase.

During the visit, the Chinese Vice President will call on President Arif Alvi and have a separate meeting with Prime Minister Imran Khan. Pakistan and China will sign MoUs and agreements and inaugurate projects to enhance bilateral cooperation in a broad range of areas.

The visit of the Chinese Vice President underscores the vitality of the time-tested and all-weather relationship between Pakistan and China.

It will reinforce the strength of bilateral ties and impart further impetus to the growing, multi-faceted cooperation between the two countries in diverse fields.

The visit is in continuation of high-level exchanges between the two countries, which have acquired an increased momentum since the Prime Minister's visit to China in November last year and his participation in the 2nd Belt and Road Forum in Beijing in April this year.

Meanwhile, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson has said that Chinese Vice President Wang Qishan's visit to Pakistan will further deepen high-level exchanges, friendship and mutual trust between the two countries.

He said the visit will also advance the development of China Pakistan Economic Corridor besides bilateral cooperation across the board.

The spokesperson said China and Pakistan are all-weather strategic cooperative partners and iron friends, and firmly support each other on issues concerning each other's foreign interests.

He said Pakistan has been a priority on China's diplomacy and now both the countries have witnessed a sound momentum in their cooperation and frequent high level exchanges.

He said both the countries are deepening the mutually beneficial cooperation and conducting close coordination in international and regional affairs.