Source: Frontier Star
Publisher: Frontier Star Publisher
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 Asianet-Pakistan 
Publication Date: Oct 07, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Govt to constitute CPEC Authority through presidential ordinance

Snippet: For expediting the delayed China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) projects, the federal government has decided to constitute a 10-member CPEC Authority through a presidential ordinance.

On Monday, the government has forwarded a draft to the president for approval and the decision has been taken in rush as no sessions of the National Assembly (NA) and Senate are being held.

Body: 
According to media reports, the ordinance would be applicable across Pakistan and the office of the authority will be established in Islamabad.

Prime Minister Imran Khan will appoint the chairperson, executive directors and members of the authority for a period of four years.

The chief executive of the authority will be a government officer of grade-20.

According to the draft, the authority will determine ways to enhance cooperation between Pakistan and China in diverse sectors

Authority will play an active role for effective communication between the Joint Cooperation Committee and the Joint Working Group, and enhance coordination between provinces and ministries.

Furthermore, any decision regarding the projects will be taken by approval of majority of the members and none of the beneficiaries of the CPEC projects will be a member of the authority.

Importantly, the CPEC Authority will operate in accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between Pakistan and China.

The authority will be compelled to submit a financial report of the projects to the prime minister on annual basis, and will be liable to seek any details of the projects.

Moreover, the government will allocate budget for the CPEC and it will be empowered to appoint employees and officers working for the projects.

According to rules, it will establish a business council that will guide the authority in achieving its set goals.

The authority, with the approval of the prime minister, will be authorised to formulate new rules and regulations, and will work closely with the ministry of planning.