Source: Frontier Star
Publisher: Frontier Star Publisher
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 Asianet-Pakistan 
Publication Date: Apr 22, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,pakis,easiaz,chinaz,apacz,asiaz,bric,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: PM Imran Khan's visit of significant importance: Chinese Envoy

Snippet: Chinese Envoy to Islamabad Yao Jing on Monday said Prime Minister Imran Khan's upcoming visit to China will be of 'significant importance for bilateral relations between the two countries'. He said both the countries are set to begin the second phase of Free Trade Agreement (FTA). The Chinese Ambassador said there is complete understanding between Pakistan and China that the CPEC is fruitful for both the countries.

The premier will be attending the second Belt and Road Forum will take place from April 27 onwards.

Body: 
While briefing the media Yao Jing added that 'delegations will be attending the forum all over the world and experts from different fields will also attend'. PM Imran is scheduled to deliver a keynote address, the ambassador informed.

As many as 40 heads of state and institutions will also attend the forum and the leaders will engage in dialogue with each other.

'PM Imran would also attend the horticulture conference along with 17 world leaders.'

Bilateral meetings between PM Imran and world leaders will take place on April 28. The ambassador also stated that the OBOR project is an agreement signed between 115 countries.

'Pakistan is an important country for Pakistan on all fronts, not just CPEC,' the ambassador clarified, adding that CPEC is based on mutual interests. The envoy added that the Chinese leadership was looking forward to PM Imran's visit.

'Inter-governmental loans for development projects are being provided at discounted interests. China has given $6 billion in loans, on which zero interest is being charged.'

The prime minister will be visiting China from April 25-28 on a three-day official visit at the invitation of President Xi Jinping, a statement from the Foreign Office announced last week.

Belt and Road Forum provides a platform to countries participating in Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) for exchanging views and experiences on regional connectivity; policy synergy; socio-economic development and trade and commerce. Leaders from 40 countries and delegations from over 100 countries, international organizations and corporate sector would participate in the event.