Source: The Balochistan Times
Publisher: Asianet-Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 The Balochistan Times 
Publication Date: Oct 07, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: KP CM directs finalization of projects for inclusion in CPEC

Snippet: Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Chief Minister Mahmood Khan Monday directed all concerned departments to finalize working on developmental projects to be included in China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) before the upcoming joint Cooperation Committee (JCC) schedule next month.

While chairing a meeting regarding the preparation for the 9th JCC meeting, the chief minister agreed in principles for holding of road show in the province to attract foreign investment especially in tourism sector.

Body: 
The meeting was also attended by Minister Finance Taimur Saleem Jhagra, Advisor to Chief Minister on Energy Hamayatullah Khan, Chief Secretary Muhammad Saleem Khan, Additional Chief Secretary Shehzad Bangash, Principal Secretary to CM Shahab Ali Shah, Secretary Energy, Secretary Industries, Secretary C and W, Secretary Agriculture, CEOs, KPOGCL, PEDO, EZDMC and other ranking officials.

Mahmood Khan directed all concerned departments to finalize their preparations for the upcoming Joint Working Group (JWG) meetings to be held with Chinese counterpart, adding that previously majority of the projects from Khyber Pakhtunkhwa were ignored in the CPEC due to unfavorable federal government. He added that the upcoming visit of Prime Minister Imran Khan to China will prove to be a major game changer for the province.

The CM also directed the formation of a committee under the chairmanship of Minister for Finance Taimur Saleem Jhagra for the attraction of foreign and domestic investment.

The committee will also include Additional Chief Secretary, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Board of Investment and Trade (BOIT), higher authorites of industries department and other high ranking officials.

The meeting was informed that hydro power projects, communication projects, socio-economic sector, agriculture, public health engineering, TEVTA, economic zones, irrigations schemes etc are ready for execution and the Chinese cooperation in this regard will not only benefit the province but will also contribute tremendously for the promotion of trade and commerce in the region.

According to details, the projects to be discussed in the Joint Working Group to be held from next week include Rashakai Economic Zone, Hattar Economic Zone, Mohmand Economic Zone, Chakdara to Gilgit road via Chitral and Shandur, Greater Peshawar Circular Railway project, Chashma Right Bank lift Canal, KOTO Power project, Swat Motorway Phase II, Peshawar to D.I.Khan Motorway, energy projects and many other are destined to change the future of the province.

The meeting was briefed in detail regarding the mega projects of the provincial government, their feasibility and progress. The Chief Minister was informed that Chakdara to Gilgit road via Shandur and Chitral will not only promote tourism but will also serve as an alternate CPEC route.

Furthermore, the Swat Expressway Phase II, from Chakdara to Fateh Pur includes 82-kilometer highway that has an estimated cost Rs. 61 billion.

Similarly, 320 Km Peshawar to D.I.Khan motorway has an estimated cost of Rs. 230 billion. The meeting was also informed regarding 11 hydro power energy projects with power generating capacity of over 2000 MW which will help in providing cheap electricity to the industrial zones thereby attracting foreign and domestic investment.

The chief minister maintained that Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province is blessed with tremendous investment opportunities and has the potential to become a transit route for trade and commerce for the entire region.

He furthered that under the dynamic and sincere leadership of Prime Minister Imran Khan the federation of Pakistan will be strengthened and all federating units will get their due rights.

He advised all the relevant departments to complete their home work before the JCC meeting and directed them to present a strong case for approval of the developmental projects in the upcoming JWG meetings.