Source: Xinhua News Agency
Publisher: News and Information Center Xinhua News Agency
Byline: 李浩 
Copyright: Copyright 2019. Xinhua News Agency. All rights reserved. 
Publication Date: Oct 21, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Pattern of joint projects under CPEC should continue: Pakistani PM

Snippet: HUB, Pakistan, Oct. 22 (Xinhua) -- Joint projects under the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) are a pattern that should continue, Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan said at the commercial operation ceremony of a power plant in Hub in the country's southwestern Balochistan province.


 As a part of the early harvest projects under CPEC, the coal-fired power plant in Hub comprises two 660-megawatt units, and was constructed by China Power Hub Generation Company, a joint venture between Pakistan's Hub Power Company Ltd. and China Power International Holding Ltd.


Body: 
 The Pakistani government wants to see that Pakistani businesses especially small and medium companies which are the backbone of the country collaboration with big Chinese companies which want to come to Pakistan, and the government of Pakistan will fully support this kind of cooperation under CPEC and facilitate it in every way possible, Khan said on Monday.


 Chinese Ambassador to Pakistan Yao Jing said that the commercial operation of the power plant is another achievement under the cooperation of CPEC which is entering into a new stage - the stage of industrial cooperation, agricultural cooperation, and social cooperation.


 China, as a partner and a friend, will keep contributing and supporting Pakistan's building and construction of a new Pakistan, Yao added.


 Chief Minister of Balochistan Jam Kamal Khan told Xinhua that Balochistan has advantages regarding to geographical location and resources, hoping the Chinse business community can really see the true potential of the province.


 After commercial operation, the power plant will produce 9 billion kwh annually, meeting needs of 4 million Pakistani households, according to an official from China Power International Holding Ltd.

Enditem