Source: Flare
Publisher: Flare
Byline: _ 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Monthly Flare 
Publication Date: Feb 27, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Govt wants mobile card recharge tax restored

Snippet: In the wake of poor economic conditions, the government has decided to pitch a new formula before the Supreme Court of Pakistan for taxing mobile recharge cards because the tax exemptions result in a combined yearly loss of Rs123 billion to the federal and provincial governments.

The decision comes as the government figures out a way to achieve the revenue targets while negotiations with IMF almost done. They believe by doing so they will be closer to achieving their desired revenue targets without imposing further taxes for the next five months.

Body: 
State Minister for Revenue Hammad Azhar says, “No new taxes will be imposed in the current fiscal year to achieve revenue target as prior conditions for availing the International Monetary Fund (IMF) bailout package.”

The Federal Board of Revenue (FBR) has filed an appeal against the Supreme Court’s order suspending the tax on mobile cards.

FBR chairman said that the suspension of tax on mobile cards caused a loss to national revenue.

Back in June last year, the court abolished taxes on mobile prepaid cards terming them as “illegal” and said, “The public is being looted.” However, it did call for making a comprehensive policy for the tax deduction.

Azhar believes that court will accept the new formula. “Now we are hopeful that the court will consider our formula.”

On the charge of a Rs100 prepaid mobile card, a 19.5pc federal excise duty was charged along with 12.5pc withholding tax and 10pc service/maintenance charge.

A three-member SC bench, headed by former Chief Justice Mian Saqib Nisar, had passed the orders while hearing suo motu notice over deduction of high tax/other charges by mobile companies in Pakistan. The annulling of the prepaid tax saw Rs80 billion being wiped out of the revenue collected. The government has been struggling to come to a consensus with the IMF without compromising their sovereignty. “We will not accept any conditionality attached with the IMF that will directly impact our economy or people,” the minister said. The government plans to get the bailout package without implementing harsh policies that might be suggested by the IMF. However, the huge deficit places Pakistan in a very weak spot for negotiations.

The government has been able to drag negotiations with IMF by securing bailout packages from countries, including Saudi Arabia and UAE. It is believed that a similar agreement with China will be signed soon. “You will hear a very good news from China soon,” Azhar said.

However, he said that his government has successfully managed required funds on bilateral basis. He said that his government has procured some breathing space through bilateral support from Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates while talks with China are near conclusion.

On the revenue shortfall, he attributed it mainly to suspension of tax on mobile cards, slashing of sales tax rate on petroleum products. He said his government avoids increasing sales tax to pocket easy revenue. Under the proposed reforms process, federal taxes will be clubbed together in the first phase while during the second stage, provincial taxes will also be brought under the same built. He said the ultimate target is to create single tax machinery for ease of doing business. According to the minister, provinces have shown willingness to collect taxes at the federal level.

He also said there is a proposal on table to separate assessment and audit. The internal audit department will also report to Prime Minister Secretariat. The minister avoided replying to the questions about delay in taking action against corrupt tax officers. He said FBR has chalked out a comprehensive plan to bring high net-worth individuals in the tax net. “We have requested some 8-10 countries to share with us data regarding Pakistani assets,” the minister said, adding a similar request was sent to Switzerland in January.

On the other hand, the government has made several efforts to improve the Ease of Doing Business (EODB) and has materialized many demands of the business community.

These efforts include the clubbing of 45 different taxes. Minister of State and Chairman Board of Investment (BOI) Haroon Sharif said this while remarking that the government is on its way to introduce one tax regime.

He said that the government has linked different departments through e-portals. Owing to this initiative, businessmen will be able now to pay their taxes online. This step is to facilitate the local investors and the business community in operating efficiently.

The state minister made these comments while visiting the Rawalpindi Chamber of Commerce and Industry (RCCI). He underlined that the business community should come up with their recommendations and suggestions regarding improvement of Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in different sectors like agri foods, tourism, services sector, real estate, and poultry.

He also suggested the business community to have a close partnership with the chamber of commerce via an advisory council that will monitor the progress of government initiatives and provide feedback on given projects.