Source: Pakistan Observer
Publisher: Pakistan Observer
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Observer 
Publication Date: Jun 15, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,easiaz,chinaz,laho,pakis,apacz,asiaz,bric,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Quaid-e-Azam apparel is on the card: Aslam

Snippet: Provincial Minister for Industry and Trade Mian Aslam Iqbal has announced that work on the big economic project of Quaid-e-Azam Apparel Park is being started within two months which will help to bring big investment.

A garment city on 600 acres is also being established at Lahore-Kasur road and this project will generate 30 thousand new job opportunities. Land has been provided for the establishment of Expo Center in Faisalabad and work has also been started on this project.

Body: 
An Expo Center will also be set up in Multan. Work on the project of special economic zone under CPEC is also continuing speedily. He expressed these views while inaugurating an exhibition at Packages Mall which was organized by the Sichuan chamber of international commerce in collaboration with Punjab Board of Investment and Trade.

Provincial Minister visited various stalls and expressed keen interest in the project prepared in Sichuan city of China. Provincial Minister said that there is vast potential of export of Halal food in Pakistan. Problems faced to Halal food market are being solved due to which meat will be exported to China.

He said that we want to take benefit from latest technology of China in the promotion of agriculture sector. He said that Chinese companies are investing in Punjab and we want to enhance cooperation with China. Provincial Minister said during the current visit of Prime Minister Imran Khan of China, free trade agreement with China is signed and this agreement will beneficial for both the countries.

He said that Punjab Board of Investment and Trade is providing facilities to foreign investors and the board will have to work more actively in this regard. CEO Punjab Board of Investment and Trade Jehanzeb Burhana, Vice President LCCI, representatives of Chinese companies and other officers of PBIT were also present on this occasion