Source: Khaleej Times
Publisher: Galadari Printing & Publishing LLC
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019 Khaleej Times.  Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com Company All Rights Reserved. 
Publication Date: Apr 10, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: SCO Forwards PC-1 Of Pak-China Optical Fibre Cable Project

Snippet: Pakistan and China have agreed to extend cross border Optic Fiber network by laying 9600 km cable (Khunjrab-Gawadar-Karachi) along China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) routes with an estimated cost of $279.219 million.

According to official documents, the project would cost around $279.219 million with a ratio of 85 percent loan (China) and 15 percent (Pakistan).

Body: 
Under the project, 9600 km OFC for Phase-II of Paki-China OFC project would be laid for the establishment of cross border OF network (Khunjrab-Gawadar-Karachi) along CPEC routes. The project would be completed in four years.

The documents further revealed the SCO has demanded Rs 779.279 million under the Public Sector Development Programme (PSDP) 2019-2020.

It is worth mentioning that National Assembly Standing Committee on Information Technology and Telecommunication was informed around one year ago that Phase-II of the project was endorsed by former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif and Shahid Khaqan Abbasi, however, the IT Ministry had maintained that there were some legal issues due to which SCO could not be allowed to proceed with it. The matter was pending before the Prime Minister and any decision at the highest level will be implemented, stated a Member of Ministry of IT.

The first phase of worth $44 million Optical Fiber Cable (OFC) project, directly connecting Pakistan and China has been completed under the CPEC framework. China was providing 85 percent of the finances for the project while the remaining 15 percent are from the government of Pakistan. The project was aimed at enabling another high-speed international connection and caters to the rapidly growing Internet traffic needs of both countries. Under the first phase, an 820km long cable between Rawalpindi and Khunjrab was laid down and was assigned to SCO.