Source: Pakistan Observer
Publisher: Pakistan Observer
Byline: Zubair Qureshi 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Observer 
Publication Date: Jan 15, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Ease of doing business can turn Pakistan ideal destination for investment

Snippet: Ambassador of China to Pakistan Yao Jing and Minister for Development and Reform Makhdum Khusro Bakhtyar in a meeting here Tuesday agreed to declare the year 2019 as 'Year of Economic Cooperation under China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC).'

During the meeting, matters relating to progress on CPEC projects came under discussion.

Body: 
Ambassador Yao Jing appreciated the 8th Joint Cooperation Committee (JCC) meeting held successfully in an investment-friendly atmosphere where all deliverables were achieved and the scope of the cooperation was expanded to new avenues.

Both sides agreed to expedite work by promoting joint ventures and export led growth under CPEC by declaring 2019 as 'year of industrial, socioeconomic and agriculture cooperation'.

Minister for Planning, Development and Reform, Makhdum Khusro Bakhtyar on the occasion remarked that the MoU on Industrial Cooperation, signed during 8th JCC, provides a framework to promote communication on key industries such as textile, petro-chemical and iron and steel, encourages Chinese investors to relocate and explore opportunities of investment in Pakistan.

The Minister highlighted that Pakistan can become an ideal destination for investment in different sectors. He said that Ministry of Planning would facilitate Chinese investors looking for opportunities under CPEC and create a pull effect. Minister highlighted that government is working on policies that will improve ease of doing business in early time frame.

Bakhtyar said the first meeting of the JWG on Socio economic development was a major milestone and the action plan discussed therein will support uplift of less developed area. Pakistan side has already forwarded invitation letter to China for visit of the expert team.

'Both side to work out for speedy implementation of initiatives in already identified six areas including agriculture, education, medical treatment, poverty alleviation, water supply and vocational training projects' he intimated.

He hoped that JWG on Agriculture meeting, scheduled for 15th February this year, would provide an opportunity to broaden CPEC Cooperation. He emphasized that Chinese investors should explore investment opportunities in agriculture sector of Pakistan for input supplies as well as food production, processing, logistics, marketing and exports in a vertically integrated way on their own or in joint ventures (B2B) with Pakistani companies.

Both side agreed to ensure that this year Gwadar Projects such as New International Airport, Hospital and Vocational Institutes will hit ground with in three months as these projects are beneficial for local population and will therefore gain the support and trust of the local population.

Ambassador Yao Jing appreciated the efforts of Government of Pakistan for facilitating Chinese investors and informed that a large number of Chinese investors would visit Pakistan soon that would further strengthen the bonds of economic and bilateral cooperation.