Source: The Frontier Post
Publisher: The Frontier Post
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. The Frontier Post 
Publication Date: Nov 24, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,laho,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Those hatching conspiracies against CPEC, enemies of Pakistan: Sarwar

Snippet: Punjab Governor Chaudhry Mohammad Sarwar has said that those hatching conspiracies against China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) are enemies of Pakistan's development and they will not be let succeeded. He said that Pak-China friendship is stronger than rock.

This he said while talking to PTI central worker Hamid Zaman, and Sheraz Cheema, Shoaib Salman, Mian Waheed and Asima Bajwa from PTI Youth Wing and more than 15 delegations from various districts of Punjab here at Governor House on Sunday.

Body: 
Ch Sarwar said that China has always sided Pakistan in time of difficulty, and the second phase of CPEC will expedite the pace of economic development of Pakistan as millions of people will get jobs in economic zones. He said that under the leadership of Prime Minister Imran Khan, the PTI has always done the politics of principles and ideology and will continue with this mission in future to make Pakistan a developed and prosperous country.

The Governor said that provision of maximum relief to people is top priority of Pakistan Tehrik-e-Insaf for which federal and provincial governments have launched the projects like Ehsas Programme and Insaf Sehat Card, and now PTI will also fulfill its promise of empowering the youth through Youth Card Programme. PTI is also introducing a historic local bodies system for devolution of power at grass root level. After the local governments' elections, people's problems will be resolved at their doorstep.

Ch Sarwar added that today Pakistan is faced with numerous challenges but no world power can hinder its way forward because Prime Minister Imran Khan is working with all sincerity and commitment for his country and every coming day is bringing prosperity and progress to Pakistan. He vowed that Pakistan will also get rid of problems such as price-hike and un-employment. He said that people have rejected the opposition parties in the general election 2018 and even now, the opposition will meet failure as the people are standing with PTI.