Source: The Balochistan Times
Publisher: Asianet-Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 The Balochistan Times 
Publication Date: Apr 09, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,qatar,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,gulfstz,indsubz,meastz,sasiaz,wasiaz,

Title: BOI evolving new investment strategy involving best world practices

Snippet: Keeping in view the world best practices, the Board of Investment (BOI) has embarked upon a plan to evolve new investment strategy for increasing the Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) to promote sustainable growth and ensure economic stability.

"The new investment strategy will be prepared keeping in view the best modern practices including marketing to meet the international standards," senior official of BOI told reporter here on Tuesday.

Body: 
The Investment strategy particularly would have focus on creating conducive business environment to attract the foreign investment in the country,he added.

Replying to a question, he said that foreign Investment from the China, Saudi Arab,Malaysia and Qatar would turn around the country's economy and pave way for the economic growth and stability.

He said that Qatari companies were ready to come and had Joint Ventures (JVs) with foreign and local companies to become part of the global value chain.

The official said that the China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) was having huge potential and Qatari companies could take advantage of this by investing in its various projects.

He said that Pakistan desired to have a long-term economic and strategic relationship with Qatar, adding that the businessmen of both the countries negotiated deals in areas of aviation services, tourism, infrastructure during the recent visit of Qatri's delegation to Pakistan.

Qatar-Pakistan bilateral trade volume was set to witness a major boost in the coming days as Hamad Port has established direct shipping links with Karachi and other ports in Pakistan.

The bilateral economic relations were expected to expand further as private companies from both the sides were exploring trade and investment opportunities aggressively.

Replying to a question, he said that BOI was optimistic that Pakistan's ranking in 'Ease of Doing Business' would show considerable improvements and come down under 100 when the World Bank would release its next rankings during coming September.

'Currently the BOI has been working on evaluating the performance of ease of doing business in two man cities of the country including Karachi and Lahore, and reports pertaining to it would be presented in cabinet for discussion and finally submitted to the World Bank (WB) for approval.