Source: The Express Tribune
Publisher: The Express Tribune
Byline: Mohammad Zafar and Rizwan Ghilzai 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. The Express Tribune News Network. 
Publication Date: Mar 28, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,punjab,asiaz,bric,devgcoz,dvpcoz,india,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: PM Imran to perform ground-breaking of Gwadar International Airport

Snippet: Prime Minister Imran Khan reached Balochistan's provincial capital on Friday as an initial stop for his first inter-provincial tour. During the two-day visit, the premier will also visit Sindh and Punjab.

Railways Minister Sheikh Rashid and PM's Special Adviser Yar Mohammad Rind are also accompanying him.

Body: 
New hopes of entrepreneurship arise in Balochistan

Balochistan Chief Minister Jam Kamal Khan and other provincial ministers and members Balochistan Assembly received the premier at Quetta airport.

During his stay in the city, the prime minister will hold meetings with leaders of Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) and allied parties. From Quetta, PM Imran will then fly to Gwadar.

The premier will perform ground-breaking of Gwadar International Airport which is expected to be completed in three years with the help of China.

The prime minister is also expected to be briefed on Gwadar port, China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) and other development projects.

He will then head to Sindh and is expected to land in the port city of Karachi on Friday night.

The premier has summoned a meeting of Karachi Transformation Committee at 10 am on March 30 (Saturday). He will also address the business community in the city.

The same day, PM Imran will leave for Ghotki, his next stop in Sindh, where he will address a public gathering after meeting key leaders in the province.

PM Imran forms expert groups to implement NAP

The premier will then leave for Punjab and will inaugurate two trains including the Jinnah Express at the Lahore Railway Station.

He will also hold separate meetings with Punjab Chief Minister Usman Buzdar and Punjab Governor Chaudhry Muhammad Sarwar.