Source: BBC Monitoring South Asia
Publisher: The British Broadcasting Corporation
Byline: 
Copyright: (c) 2019 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation. 
Publication Date: Dec 06, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,afgh,asiaz,casiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Highlights from Pakistan's Pashto-language TV, press, websites 6 Dec 19

Snippet: THE FOLLOWING IS A BBCM SELECTION OF MAJOR NEWS ITEMS PUBLISHED IN PAKISTAN'S PASHTO-LANGUAGE TV, PRESS AND ONLINE MEDIA OUTLETS ON 6 December 2019.

Wahdat

Body: 
Government to announce Chief Election Commissioner soon

Minister of Science and Technology, Fawad Chaudhary, said the government will appoint the Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) in few days with consensus. He added the government did not believe in political victimisation, vengeance and no one will be politically victimised. (front page, 120 words approx.)

Government believes in freedom of expression: Ashiq Awan

Special Assistant to Prime Minister on Information and Broadcasting, Firdous Ashiq Awan, said the government believes in freedom of expression. She said the freedom of expression is a constitutional right of every citizen. However, one should also realise their right of state interests and those violating would not be a responsible citizen. (back page, 250 words approx.)

Health insurance card distributed in North Waziristan

Government distributed Sehat Insaf Card (Health Insurance Card) in North Waziristan area. Focal Person for Sehat Insaf Card, Tajamul Hussain, said the cards could be collected from various Tehsils [local blocks] of Waziristan. (front page, 120 words approx.)

[Wahdat gives good and equal coverage to both sides of the Durand Line (Pakistan-Afghan frontier), with a focus on Pashtun issues. The paper also publishes interviews with Afghan political leaders. It provides a balanced mix of anti-Taliban and pro-Taliban opinion.]

Khabroona

Security personnel, four militants dead in South Waziristan

One security personnel died while three others were injured in a clash with militants in South Waziristan. In retaliation, the security forces killed four militants and captured five other alive. The dead bodies and injured were shifted to Mir Shah Hospital for medical treatment. (front page, 160 words approx.)

PM suggests three names for CEC

Prime Minister (PM) Imran Khan has suggested three names for the post of the chief election commissioner (CEC). Leader of opposition and the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) president Shahbaz Sharif in his letter sent to the prime minister also suggested name for the election commissioner and asked PM Khan to consider one of the names for the post. (front page, 200 words approx.)

Government to solve political issue with opposition parties

Special Assistant to Prime Minister for Youth Affairs, Usmar Dar, has said that government has no grudges with opposition political parties. He said that opposition parties should play a positive role in solving political issues of the country. He added that there is a need of unity for resolving of the issues. He said all of the issues including appointment of the chief election commissioner would be amicably resolved. (front page, 200 words approx.)

[Khabroona is owned by the Peshawar-based Subh Group, which also publishes the Urdu daily Subh. It provides good coverage to both sides of the Durand Line (the Pakistan-Afghan frontier), with a focus on Pashtun issues. It provides a balanced mix of anti-Taliban and pro-Taliban opinion.]

Hewad

Opposition leader accused of corruption

Special Assistant to Prime Minister on Accountability, Shehzad Akbar, said that the assets of Shahbaz Sharif and his sons increased in very short time. He said the assets of Sharif increased by 70 per cent in last one decade, while the assets of the Suleman Shehbaz (son of Shahbaz Sharif) increased by 8,000 per cent. (front page, 200 words approx.)

Afghan peace must for regional stability: Foreign Minister

Pakistan's Minister of Foreign Affairs, Shah Mahmood Qureshi, said peace in Afghanistan is very crucial for stability of the region. He added economic diplomacy is the priority of the government. He added Pakistan foiled Indian effort to include Pakistan in the black list of Financial Action Task Force [international organisation combating terror financing and money laundering]. He added China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) will further strengthen friendship of both countries [China-Pakistan]. (front page, 180 words approx.)

Pakistan welcomes resumption of US-Taliban talks

Pakistan welcomed restoration of the US and Taliban peace talks and hoped the talk will lead to inter-Afghan dialogue which will pave path for peace and stability in Afghanistan. Foreign Office spokesperson said Pakistan' stance remained that the use of force is not a solution of Afghanistan issue. (front page, 200 words approx.)

[Hewad is Pakistan's oldest Pashto newspaper, and gives equal coverage to both sides of the Durand Line (the Pakistan-Afghanistan frontier), with a focus on Pashtuns and religion.]

Tribal News Network

Municipal officers in KP tribal districts

Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP) government has decided to appoint 25 Tehsil [local block] Municipal Officers in seven districts of the tribal districts. KP's Local Government Minister Shehram Khan said that this would be an important step towards local bodies election in tribal districts. He said that for cleanliness of tribal districts government will provide fifty vehicles and 600 containers. (front page, 180 words approx.)

Pakistan inks annual pilgrimage agreement with Saudi Arabia

Pakistan inks Hajj [Muslims annual pilgrimage to Mecca] agreement with Saudi Arabia for 2020. Under the agreement, 200,000 pilgrims will visit Hajj in 2020. The agreement was signed by Minister of Religious Affairs Noor Ulhaq Qadri with his Saudi counterpart. Earlier, both leaders discussed the provision of overall facilities for the pilgrims. (front page, 180 words approx.)

Visa through E-corridor system for Afghan refugees

Federal government has decided to terminate the Proof of Registration (PoR) card for Afghan refugees and will introduce E-corridor system instead. Government has also formulated a special committee for the E-corridor system for Afghan refugees and its recommendation report will be submitted to the government. After the introduction of the system, Afghan refugees will be issued visa through E-Corridor system. (front page, 170 words approx.)

[Tribal News Network (TNN) is a Peshawar-based online multimedia news agency. It provides news from Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and the erstwhile tribal areas and focusses on their issues and problems. It was established in 2014 to serve radio audiences through partner FM radio stations and has now evolved into a news portal.]

Pashtun Gazette

Provincial party leader meets Afghan Ambassador

The KP president of the Awami National Party (ANP) Aimal Wali Khan met Afghanistan's ambassador to Pakistan Atif Mashal. Aimal in his meeting expressed condolence over the killing of Afghanistan's non-government organisation chief Nakamura and condemned the killing. Aimal Wali also discussed bilateral issues with Afghan ambassador. Aimal Wali said that peace in region is tied with peace in Afghanistan. (front page, 200 words approx.)

[Pashtun Gazette is a bilingual news portal in Pashto and Urdu. Reportage in the two languages differs due to the different target audiences. The Pashto section of the website is mostly about Pakistan's erstwhile tribal areas, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Afghanistan, while the Urdu section is about mainstream Pakistani issues.]

Date Line (Prime Time Talk Show on AVT Khyber News at 17:00 gmt)

Discussion on completion of bus transport project

Anchor Aqeel Yousafzai said the government claimed that Peshawar Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) project would be completed in record time; however, its completion had been delayed. He added that there were contradictions in claims of government officials regarding completion of the project.

The Jamiat Ulema-i-Islam(Fazl) (JUI-F) leader Maulana Hussain Haqani said the government started BRT project without any planning and now the government officials were confused and taking haphazard actions. He added that in many places of the main corridor, it would not be possible for the vehicles to pass through the track. He said the government had overburden the province with loans.

The Jamaat-i-Islami (JI) former local government minister Inayat Ullah Khan said instead of the BRT project he suggested government to complete ring road in Peshawar while the metro system was suggested on train track. He said the project would not solve the traffic issue of the city as it had been initiated in haste with no feasibility study and it was just for political gains. He said the government spends funds on infrastructure which needed subsidy for running it instead of spending funds on human development.

[AVT Khyber News is Pakistan's first Pashto-language satellite news channel and was launched in 2007. The Islamabad-based channel is owned by the AVT group, which first launched AVT Khyber (an entertainment channel) in 2004. AVT says it is "the voice of Pashtuns around the world". It has a network of reporters in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province and in Afghanistan.]

Mashriq Leads (Prime Time Talk Show on Mashriq TV at 14:00 gmt)

Discussion on Inter-faith harmony

Anchor Salman Ali Shah said there were communication gaps among different religious communities in Pakistan. He said for a better inter-faith harmony there was a need of awareness, in which educational institutes could play a role.

Dr Abdul Manan said inter-faith harmony was very important for the development of any country. He added that proper guidance of students on mutual understanding was the responsibility of the teachers.

Professor Radi Sham said inter-faith harmony leads to peace which was very important for progress of the country. He said due to the information age, awareness had been increased among masses and religious clerics should aware people in mosques about rights of minorities in the region.

[Hindu] priest Ashok Kumar said that all religion spread message of peace; similarly, Hinduism also taught lessons of humanity. He said such lessons should be included in the curriculum which made students aware of various religions. He said media should also play a role in interfaith harmony. He said that we need to participate in each other religious festivals.

Master M Riaz said with the education there would be better understanding among the community. He said that there was no bad religion, first we needed to learn about humanity and for that education was very important.

[Mashriq TV is a Pashto-language channel launched in August 2016 and is a partner station of the BBC. It is owned by the Mashriq group of newspapers which also publishes English-language daily The Statement. The channel is observed to carry balanced reporting with no overt leanings towards any political party or group.]

Source: BBC Monitoring in Pashto 1030 gmt 6 Dec 19