Source: Daily Messenger
Publisher: Daily Messenger
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Daily Messenger 
Publication Date: Oct 21, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: PM Khan invites joint investments under CPEC

Snippet: Prime Minister Imran Khan on Monday expressed support for joint investments in various sectors under the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), as he inaugurated the 1, 320- megawatt China Hub Power Generation Plant in Balochistan. Addressing the inaugural ceremony, Imran said that this is the first joint project under CPEC and the government wants to see the pattern evolve in the future. 'I am happy that under CPEC, the first joint project [is being inaugurated]. We want to see the pattern continue, ' the premier said, adding that big Chinese companies want to come to Pakistan. 'The joint projects are welcome; the government will fully support [such projects], ' he said, requesting the managers of the newly built power plant to consume at least 20 per cent coal from the Thar coal reserves. The project 'will help us reduce the Current Account Deficit (CAD), ' he added.

Body: 
 The premier also said that the government is moving towards the second phase of CPEC and it has established CPEC Authority to facilitate projects under the programme.

'During my recent visit to China, the president and prime minister expressed interest in boosting CPEC projects, ' he said. The prime minister said that Chinese companies are better than their Pakistani counterparts in terms of productivity and the country would like to benefit from their skills. He added that the government will introduce new techniques in farming sector in collaboration with Chinese enterprises. The prime minister congratulated Hubco Chairman Habibullah Khan on the project and asked him to use more indigenous coal for power generation. He also asked him to work on water projects for Karachi. Imran expressed disappointment over the 'inability' of the previous governments to utilise the rich hydropower resources available in Pakistan.

Talking about his government's economic reforms, he said that the government is committed to facilitating ease of doing business in the country to attract foreign investments. He added that red tapism and undue hurdles in the way of business are being removed. 'Balochistan has rich mineral deposits. During my visit to the US, the chairman of the company previously working with Recodak project informed me that Pakistan has one of the largest and finest gold reserves in the world, ' he said, adding that the chairman of the said company was still interested in working with Pakistan as they are confident of the incumbent 'corruption free government'. The prime minister said that apart from mineral resources, Balochistan has vast fisheries resources and development in this sector can help bring valuable foreign exchange to the country. He said that the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) government inherited a record debt which led to more inflation, devaluation of rupee and other challenges. However, difficult decisions were made which have started yielding positive results, he added.