Source: BBC Monitoring South Asia
Publisher: The British Broadcasting Corporation
Byline: 
Copyright: (c) 2019 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation. 
Publication Date: Mar 25, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,beijin,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Pakistan receives 2.2bn-dollar loan from China

Snippet: Text of report in English by website of leading English-language Pakistani daily Dawn on 25 March

The State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) on Monday [25 March] announced that it had received 15 billion Renminbi (RMB) - also known as yuan - equivalent to 2.2 billion dollars, as proceeds for a loan extended to Pakistan by the Chinese government.

Body: 
SBP @StateBank_Pak tweeted: "State Bank of Pakistan has received RMB 15 billion value today equivalent to $2.2 billion as proceeds of the loan obtained by Government of Pakistan from China."

Finance ministry adviser and spokesperson Dr Khaqan Hassan Najeeb confirmed the development to DawnNewsTV.

Last week, the Ministry of Finance had announced that the SBP would receive a 15 billion yuan loan, equivalent to 2.1bn dollar, from China by Monday (today).

Dr Najeeb had said that "all procedural formalities" for the transfer of the loan being provided to Pakistan by the Chinese government have been completed, and "the funds will be deposited in the SBP account by Monday, 25 March".

The loan facility, the spokesperson had said, "will further strengthen foreign exchange reserves and ensure balance of payment stability."

Following a meeting in Beijing between Chinese Premier Li Keqiang and Prime Minister Imran Khan in November 2018, China had said that it was willing to offer assistance to Pakistan to help it weather its current fiscal woes, but that the terms of such aid were still being discussed.

Shortly after, Chinese Consul General Long Dingbin had said during an interview that in order to "boost Pakistan's economy", Beijing is investing in multiple sectors and launching business ventures instead of providing loans.

In February this year, in response to a Financial Times report which said that China had pledged to lend at least $2bn to Pakistan to shore up its foreign exchange reserves and prevent further devaluation of the rupee against the dollar, Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Lu Kang had tentatively acknowledged that it was extending financial assistance to help Pakistan.

"The Chinese side has offered and will continue to offer its best through assistance, trade, investment and all-around practical cooperation to support and boost Pakistan's economic and social development," Kang had said.

At the time, it was the first official confirmation by a Chinese official that Beijing had planned to extend a financial package to Islamabad. The terms of the package, however, had remained elusive until last week.

Additionally, Dr Najeeb today said that after receiving the Chinese loan, the foreign exchange reserves held by the SBP had hit the double-digit mark of 10.67bn dollars.

In a tweet, he added that the net foreign exchange reserves held by commercial banks stood at 6.91bn dollars.

He said the "implementation of a successful strategy" had resulted in the total foreign exchange reserves of the country rising to 17.58bn dollars.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 25 Mar 19