Source: Pakistan Observer
Publisher: Pakistan Observer
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Observer 
Publication Date: May 16, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,laho,pakis,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Problems in Orange Train Project

Snippet: Orange train project is also referred as the saviour for the existing government in Pakistan but in reality, it has caused more harm than good and it has become a matter of debate throughout the past year. This article will look into all the possible drawbacks and problems in the Orange Train Project and it will suggest some solutions to overcome the problem. However the project is almost in the completion phase and a test run has already been conducted but still, there are a lot of areas in which there is a room for improvement and things need to change. The Orange line train is a project which started in collaboration with China in the May of 2014 and official construction started in the October of 2015. Construction is still not complete due to various factors which include both financial and local problems. The total overhead cost of this 27-kilometer long railway track is almost 1.6 billion dollars.

Body: 
 The existing government only managed to contribute 300 million dollars to the project and the rest is granted as a loan from the Chinese government. This loan is to be paid back to the Government of China by the Government of Punjab in a period of over twenty years, in separate instalments.

This project is sometimes considered as an extension of the CPEC corridor but the Orange line project is an atomic project and it is not linked with CPEC, it is handled completely by the Punjab Government. It is not new to hear that Orange line is causing a lot of trouble to the local people and it is affecting their lifestyle directly. With every new day, we hear news of road blockade and traffic jams because of the construction sites which are deployed at all the major routes of the Lahore City. This has raised a panic within the citizens which made them hold a protest against the project in different areas of the city. The main problem with this project is the fact that it passes over few historical places in the city which are of great importance to the local people and possess a rich history. Along those historical places and monuments, many people have settled their businesses which also get disturbed due to the continuous drilling and the construction work at the site. People claim that they are losing customers and they are unable to make any living out of their businesses, which is a serious threat to their survival.

Many issues pertaining to the local buildings and heritage were raised by the people and the opposing political parties. One of the major concern was the fact that a lot of amounts is being allocated for this budget and in country like Pakistan where people lack the basic and the common facilities of life like, food, clothing, shelter, and jobs it is very bold move to make a transportation project which will cost 1.6 billion dollars and that too after the uproars of the Metro bus service, which was also criticized due to its high budget and limited movement.

The Orange train is also meant to pass from some heavily populated areas and for that, the provincial government was ready to demolish the houses which were in the way of the project.

. It was due to the efforts of the local people that this matter was raised to the Lahore High Court which ruled that the Provincial government cannot demolish houses without the consent and permission of the resident, the case was then taken to the Supreme Court where it was decided that Provincial government has to follow a set of rules given by the court and these are to be strictly followed. The project head claims that it is in the right sense to provide people with proper alternatives and that first thing is to make sure that all the people are on the same page regarding the project. Lahore High Court is also administering the project and wherever provincial government exceeds the limit, they are told to revise the agenda which is developed.