Source: Pakistan Observer
Publisher: Pakistan Observer
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Observer 
Publication Date: Sep 23, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,india,laho,pakis,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Comprehensive transportation plan for Lahore on cards

Snippet: Advisor to Chief Minister Punjab for Development and Economic Affairs, Dr Salman Shah said that Chinese economic development model could be helpful for the economic growth of Punjab while province witnessing Chinese like urbanization.

In a meeting with Chinese delegation led by Chinese Ambassador in Pakistan Yao Jin here on Monday, Advisor said that Punjab was keen to get benefited from Chinese experience for economic growth of the province. He assured the delegation that Punjab will be center and hub for Chinese investment while provincial government will play the role of bridge for Chinese and local investors in order facilitate both.The Ambassador assured all required support in the interested areas in Punjab.

Body: 
The meeting also reviewed the progress of ongoing China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) projects in the province while delegation was also briefed about the government priorities. Work on Orange Line Metro Train was completed while government wants to make it profitable venture in order to avoid any future hurdles to operate it, he mentioned. Further, a comprehensive transportation plan was being chalked out for the entire district.

He said that previous government worked on infrastructure development now the demand of development was changing as now industrialization is required under the CPEC. The Advisor said that Chief Minister Punjab office will play the role of brain for Chinese investment. He said that Punjab made long term planning for the economic growth in the province while Special Economic Zones (SEZs) were being established for investment promotion. He pointed out that Chinese investors will be given special representations and space in Allam Iqbal Apparel Park.