Source: Dawn
Publisher: Pakistan Herald Publications (Pvt.) Limited
Byline: Syed Irfan Raza 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Dawn 
Publication Date: Oct 02, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,chinaz,pakis,apacz,asiaz,bric,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: PM to visit China next week to 'revive' stalled CPEC projects

Snippet: 

Prime Minister Imran Khan will pay an official visit to China on Oct 7-8 with the main agenda of 'revival' of stalled China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) projects.

Body: 
'Removal of all bottlenecks in CPEC projects and their timely completion is the top priority of the government,' the prime minister reiterated while chairing a meeting on the economic corridor on Wednesday. He said he would soon visit China and meet its leadership to strengthen friendship between the two countries.

It has been learnt that most of CPEC-related projects have stalled due to certain reasons, including prevailing financial crunch confronting the government and 'non-cooperation' of the bureaucracy due to 'fear of the National Accountability Bureau'.

Minister for Planning and Development Khusro Bakhtiar apprised the meeting about CPEC-related projects and the progress so far made on it.

Railway Minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmed briefed the meeting on Main Line-1 (ML-1) projects being executed to lay a new railway track from Karachi to Peshawar under the umbrella of the CPEC.

Speaking at a prize distribution ceremony for seminary students, Imran says uniform curriculum to be introduced by March next year

Education

Addressing a prize distribution ceremony for madressah students who had performed distinctively in the examinations of contemporary education boards and seminaries, the PM said the government's plan to introduce uniform curriculum in the country would be implemented by March next year so that all graduates could have equal opportunities to grow in their practical life.

'The graduates of the new education system will have understanding of religion, contemporary knowledge and science and technology.'

He said the government planned to synchronise the entire education system to create social harmony in the country, adding that reforms were being introduced in the education system which would help uplift the lower section of the society with the provision of equal opportunities to progress.

Highlighting the plight of the Kashmiris, the PM said eight million people had been locked in an open jail that Occupied Kashmir had become for two months.

At present, Prime Minister Khan said, three education systems were in vogue in Pakistan, which was leading to injustices and divisions in the society. 'The Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf government had decided in its early days that the students of seminaries will be imparted contemporary modern education so that they too can get important positions in different professions,' he added.

Underlining importance of education, the prime minister said Islam laid special emphasis on education and that the 'Muslims had ruled the world for 700 years not because of sword but education'. 'Muslims are weak today mainly due to lack of education,' he deplored.

Speaking on the occasion, Federal Education Minister Shafqat Mahmood said a uniform curriculum was being prepared for government-run and private schools as well as madressahs.

He said measures were also being taken to ensure that students of seminaries took examinations of contemporary education boards, and this process would hopefully be completed in three to four years.