Source: Pakistan Press International
Publisher: Pakistan Press International Information Services
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Press International 
Publication Date: Oct 14, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,hkong,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Prime Minister Imran Khan welcomes USD 240 million foreign investment from Hong Kong based port operator, Hutchison Port holdings - Press Note issued by Press Information Department

Snippet: October 15, 2019 (PPI-OT)

Following is the text of press note issued by Press Information Department (PID)

Body: 
Quote

A delegation of Hutchison Port Holdings led by their Group Managing Director Mr. Eric Ip called on Prime Minister Imran Khan today. Minister for Maritime Affairs Syed Ali Haider Zaidi, Advisor to PM on Commerce Abdul Razzaq Dawood, Special Assistant to PM Syed Zulfiqar Abbas Bukhari, Ambassador at Large for Foreign Investment Mr. Ali Jehangir Siddiqui, Chairman Board of Investment Zubair Haider Gilani and senior officials were present during the meeting. The delegation from Hutchison Ports also included Mr. Andy Tsoi, Managing Director Middle East and Africa, Mr. Eric Ng, Business Director Middle East and Africa and the leadership of their Pakistan management team. Group Managing Director Mr. Eric Ip apprised the Prime Minister of Hutchison Port Holdings' fresh investment into Pakistan approximating USD 240 Million that will make available a significant amount of new container terminal capacity at the Karachi Port, and increase Hutchison Ports' total investment in Pakistan to USD 1 billion.

The Prime Minister was informed that this investment will also grow Hutchison employees to 3,000 people. The Prime Minister was also briefed about the development of Hutchison Port Holdings, its parent company CK Hutchison Holdings, and the group's commitment to play a pivotal role in facilitating the economic growth of Pakistan, as well as supporting the development of Karachi Port into a major hub for trade in Asia. Hutchison Port Holdings is one of the world's largest port companies, with over 30,000 employees, operating 52 ports and terminals in 27 countries spanning Asia, the Middle East, Africa, Europe, the Americas and Australia.

The company is headquartered in Hong Kong. Prime Minister Imran Khan welcomed the investment from Hutchison Port Holdings and their commitment to the Pakistan's economic prosperity. The Prime Minister reiterated the commitment and focus of the Government to facilitate investment and ease-of-doing-business that would ultimately result in economic growth and employment generation. Ambassador Ali Jehangir Siddiqui stated that as a result of a fairly priced currency, unit volumes of exports were increasing and there was a great need for additional container terminal capacity. As a result, this investment would support our export competitiveness and also result in greater revenue for both the federal exchequer and the Karachi Port Trust.

For more information, contact:Principal Information Officer,Press Information Department (PID)Tel: +92-51-9252323, +92-51-9252324Fax: +92-51-9252325, +92-51-9252326Email: piopid@gmail.comWebsite: www.pid.gov.pk

Unquote