Source: The Express Tribune
Publisher: The Express Tribune
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. The Express Tribune News Network. 
Publication Date: Oct 07, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: K-P CM seeks ideas for CPEC projects

Snippet: Chief Minister Mahmood Khan has directed all concerned departments to finalise working on developmental projects to be included in China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) before the upcoming Joint Cooperation Committee (JCC) to be held in November this year.

While chairing a meeting regarding the preparation for the ninth JCC meeting, Chief Minister principally agreed for holding a roadshow in the province to attract foreign investment, especially in the tourism sector.

Body: 
Mahmood Khan directed all concerned departments to finalise their preparations for the upcoming Joint Working Group (JWG) meetings to be held with Chinese counterpart adding that previously the majority of the projects from Khyber Pakhtunkhwa were ignored in the CPEC due to unfavourable federal government. He added that the upcoming visit of Prime Minister Imran Khan to China will prove to be a major game-changer for the province.

The Chief Minister also directed the formation of a committee under the chairmanship of Finance Minister Taimur Saleem Jhagra for the attraction of foreign and domestic investment. The committee will also include additional chief secretary, CEO BOT, CEO Industries, and other high ranking officials.

The meeting was informed that hydropower projects, communication projects, socio-economic sector, agriculture, public health engineering, TEVTA, economic zones, irrigations schemes, etc are ready for execution and the Chinese cooperation in this regard will not only benefit the province but will also contribute tremendously for the promotion of trade and commerce in the region.

The projects to be discussed in the Joint Working Group to be held from next week include Rashakai Economic Zone, Hattar Economic Zone, Mohmand Economic Zone, Chakdara to Gilgit road via Chitral and Shandur, Greater Peshawar Circular Railway project, Chashma Right Bank lift Canal, KOTO Power project, Swat Expressway Phase II, Peshawar to DI Khan motorway, Energy projects and many others are destined to change the future of the province.

The CM was informed that Chakdara to Gilgit road via Shandur and Chitral will not only promote tourism but will also serve as an alternate CPEC route. Furthermore, the Swat Expressway Phase II, from Chakdara to Fateh Pur includes 82 Km highway which has an estimated cost of Rs61 billion. Similarly 320 Km Peshawar to D.I.Khan motorway has an estimated cost of Rs230 billion.