Source: The Statesman
Publisher: Mashriq Group of Newspapers
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. The Statesman 
Publication Date: Oct 08, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: PM takes charge of CPEC, other foreign investments

Snippet: Prime Minister Imran Khan on Tuesday said corruption was one of the biggest impediments to investments coming into the country.

Addressing the China Council for Promotion of International Trade, PM Imran said the government was committed to providing an investor-friendly environment.

Body: 
Hailing the economic progress made by China, the prime minister said the way it [China]has lifted seven hundred million people out of poverty in the last thirty years was an example for the whole world.

He also appreciated President Xi Jinping's campaign against corruption.

'One of President's Xi's crusades has been against corruption and from I hear that some 400 ministerial-level people in the last five years have been convicted of corruption and put in jail,' PM Imran said.

He continued, 'This is important not only for Pakistan but for most of the developing world because corruption stops investment. Corruption is one of the biggest impediments to the investments coming into your country.'

'Firms will invest in economies that are cleaner,' the prime minister said.

'I wish I could follow President Xi's example and put 500 corrupt people in Pakistan in jail,' PM Imran lamented.

The prime minister also invited the Chinese companies to invest in the diverse sectors of Pakistan including housing, textile, manufacturing, IT and financial services, physical and technological logistics, agriculture, oil and gas and tourism and hospitality.

He added, 'Pakistan is opening up for the businesses and it was a great time for the Chinese companies to invest in the country.'

Assuring the participants that the prime minister's office will be dealing with all the major investments, PM Imran said all CPEC related investments will also be dealt from the PM office in order to remove all the hurdles in the way of investors.

He added Pakistan was encouraging the businesses to make big profits as the wealth creation will enable us to lift the people out of poverty on the pattern of China.

Speaking about Gwadar, the prime minister said Gwadar smart port city master plan has been approved. 'Work on Gwadar airport is in progress and it will be completed soon,' PM Imran said, 'We are now especially concentrating on our Special Economic Zones.'

The premier further said Pakistan was encouraging businesses to make big profits as the wealth creation will enable us to lift the people out of poverty on the pattern of China.

He added the present government has also liberalized the visa regime so that the Chinese can get the visas on arrival at the airport. 'This facility has been extended to many other countries as well,' he noted.