Source: Pakistan Observer
Publisher: Pakistan Observer
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Observer 
Publication Date: Oct 22, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: China gifts goods to Gwadar fishermen

Snippet: China will continue to help arranging fishing nets, electrical machines, life-saving drugs and other living and production materials for the local fishermen in Gwadar.

This will be a gift for the local fishermen, reports Gwadar pro-media network.

Body: 
At a donation-giving ceremony, held recently at the office of Karachi Consulate General, it was noted that because of poor infrastructure and remote distance from the economic center, residents in Gwadar have limited means to make a living and thus live a tough life.

Local fishermen do not have proper fishing tools and are doing their fishing job in a very difficult situation.

The Consulate General of the China has innovated the foreign aid mechanism by entrusting the Balochistan Business Forum Association to directly donate a batch of fishing goods.

The ceremony was attended by the local fishermen's Association, representatives of fishermen, representatives of the Gwadar Harbor Authority and representatives of the Gwadar Development Authority.

Sardar Shoukat, President of the Balochistan Business Forum Association was the chief guest on the occasion. At the ceremony, the participants discussed various proposals to deepen the friendly relationship between China-invested enterprises and the people of Gwadar.

It was noted that the donation embodies the care and assistance of the Consulate General for fishermen in Gwadar. The President of the Gwadar Fishermen's Association thanked the Consulate General for his support. The local fishermen, he said are highly obliged for the care and love of the Chinese government and Chinese people for fishermen in Gwadar. He was confident that the East Bay Expressway will highly promote the further development of Gwadar Port.

Other fishermen' representatives also spoke on the occasion and noted that this kind of direct assistance from the Chinese side has achieved very good results. It is hoped that more similar assistance will be offered especially in the field of fishermen medical treatment, education and employment. Zhang Baozhong, the Chairman of China Overseas Ports Holding Company Limited (COPHC) also addressed the ceremony.