Source: The Balochistan Times
Publisher: Asianet-Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 The Balochistan Times 
Publication Date: Mar 28, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Federal Minister for Maritime Affairs Ali inaugurates Expo Center 2019 in Gwadar

Snippet: Federal Minister for Maritime Affairs Syed Ali Haider Zaidi on Thursday said federal government under the leadership of Prime Minister was taking all possible steps to ensure provision of all facilities to foreign investors in Gwadar to boost country's economic.

He expressed these views while addressing to a ceremony of inaugural Expo Business center in Gwadar.

Body: 
Member of National Assembly (MNA) Mohammad Aslam Bhotani, Gwadar Port Authority's Chairman Naseer Ahmed Kashani, China Overseas Ports Holding Company (COPHC)'s Chairman Mr. Zhang Baozhong and other Chines' investors and high official of Pakistan attended the ceremony of inaugural of Expo Center 2019.

'Location of Gwadar port has important places around the World', he said adding, there was a lot of opportunities for investment in Gwadar which could play significant role in country including Balochistan's economic development.

He said foreign and Pakistani investors should avail these opportunities of investment, said a news release here.

He said in this regard, measures were being taken to provide better environment to foreign investors to take opportunities of facilities to invest in Gwadar for enhancing trade activities which would end the sense of deprivation of Balochistan.

Federal Minister said Pakistan and China were being focused on China-Pak Economic Corridor (CPEC) project which would be improved journey of business movements throughout the region, despite, job opportunities could be increased in respective areas of state including Balochistan after completion of mega project.

Other speakers including MNA Mohammad Aslam Bhotan, Gwadar Port Authority chairman Naseer Ahmed Kashni and China Overseas Port Holding Company's Chairman Mr. Zhang Baozhong said exports of country, exchanges and employments would be increased from trade center of Gwadar.

They said country and foreign investors were being attended to the Expo center which would be continued till March 29 which was positive sign of trade activities. 'Such activities will be enhanced relationship among overseas and local investors which could be created better environment for stability of trade activities', they said.

Later, Federal Minster Syed Ali Haider Zaidi, MNA Mohammad Assembly Bhotani and high officials inspected establishing installs of Expo Center which were established by investors of Pakistan and China.