Source: Frontier Star
Publisher: Frontier Star Publisher
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 Asianet-Pakistan 
Publication Date: Apr 19, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: More CPEC projects to be finalized during PM's visit to China: Yao Jing

Snippet: Chinese Ambassador to Pakistan Yao Jing has said that more projects of China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) will be finalized during the visit of Prime Minister Imran Khan to China, saying that opportunities of job will be provided to more than 0.7 million people though this project.

Chinese ambassador was expressing these views while addressing at a seminar held on completion of four years of China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) with regard to its success, challenges and future plan, organized by Institute of Policy Studies, Pakistan Institute of Management in Islamabad on Friday.

Body: 
While reiterating confidence on Pakistan, Chinese Ambassador to Pakistan Yao Jing said China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) project has brought progress for the countries and the region, saying that friendship between both the countries is strengthening with the passage of time.

Chinese ambassador said that Prime Minister Imran Khan will participate in the second Belt and Road summit, saying that they are making full effort to move ahead with the new government with steps for improvement of CPEC. He said that most important thing is the relation of both the countries.

Yao Jing said that ministries of both the countries are also working on it and both the countries have full accord on the CPEC project, saying that economic development is utmost priority for both the countries.

He said that six industries of cloth are being set up in Lahore while one billion dollars will be provided for the social sector, saying that economy of Pakistan is linked with the private sector.

Chinese ambassador said that China will provide 20,000 scholarships to Pakistani students in next three years. He said that CPEC was started in May 2013, saying that Chinese president came to Pakistan and finalized this project. He said that the many negative news stories were running in the internal and external media in Pakistan in 2017. Yao Jing said that after taking charge by new government in 2018 the negotiations were started on CPEC, adding that CPEC is new platform between the two countries.

Yao Jing said that China has made investment in CPEC and six Joint Working Groups are working between the two countries. The Chinese ambassador said we have blind faith in Pakistan, adding that the relations with Pakistan are different from other countries.

The ambassador said that the Belt and Road initiative is part of China's foreign policy. He said 22 projects were started under CPEC and out of them 11 have been completed. He said that China has made investment of $19 billion in these projects and Pakistan's share in these projects is $7 billion. Three power plants were established with the cost of $6 billion. All these loans were taken from the commercial banks of Chinese banks and $6 billion has been given by Chinese government. Pakistan will return this money in 2025.

Yao Jing said that 21 new projects under CPEC will be started in Pakistan, which also include Pakistan Railways ML-1 project from Karachi to Peshawar. Gwadar Airport is also included in these projects. He said that the Chinese economy is linked with the world. He said that the new Pakistani government has also said that CPEC is important for the progress of both countries.

The Chinese ambassador said that China will invest $1 billion in social sector program in Pakistan. Yao Jing said that the work will be done at the local level to eradicate poverty in Pakistan. He said that it is the vision of the current Pakistani government to bring out the country out of difficult situation, adding that China will support Pakistan in this effort. He said that Pakistan army has an important role CPEC, adding that Pakistan army has raised special division for the protection of CPEC.

Lieutenant General (retd) Khalid Aneem Lodhi, IPS Representative MohammadArshad Qaimkhani, Mirza Hamidul Hassan, Analyst Abid Sabri, Vice Chancellor Muslim Youth University Islamabad Dr Syed Tahir Ijazi, Tajammal Altaf, Shazia Ghani and Tallat Shabbir also addressed the seminar.