Source: Business Recorder
Publisher: Emmay Zed Publications (Private) Ltd
Byline: HASSAN ABBAS 
Copyright: © 2019 Business Recorder. All Rights Reserved. 
Publication Date: May 04, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Government will reduce duty on raw materials, says Dawood

Snippet: Adviser to Prime Minister on Commerce, Textile, Industry and Production Abdul Razzak Dawood said on Saturday the government will reduce duty on raw materials but it will not reduce the same on finish goods. Dawood was addressing a seminar on 'Business Opportunities under China-Pakistan Free Trade Agreement' organized by the Trade Development Authority of Pakistan.

Federal Commerce Secretary Sardar Ahmed Nawaz Sukhera was also present on this occasion. He also said he will meet the high officials of Federal Board of Revenue on Tuesday to discuss the tariff structure. Dawood said in the last five years industries closed in Pakistan and exports declined, however, former finance minister Ishaq Dar failed to take notice. He said past governments had concealed facts from the people. "We do not want to be included in the list of importing nations and have to take care of our industries," Dawood said.

Body: 
He said the government is working on industrial policy which will be announced soon. The government is trying to bring the cost of doing business down. He further said steps were being taken to bring Pakistan's economy on the right path and the government was taking decisions which would bring results. The Adviser to PM said he will visit Japan in July where he will hold talks about Pakistan getting access to Japanese market. Efforts will also be made to have an access the Korean market as well. Abdul Razak Dawood said Indonesia had given duty-free export facility on 20 products. He also said tractors were now being built in Pakistan and exported to African countries.

He said the government would not take any steps which would not be beneficial to people. "Imran Khan's vision is to provide relief to people but this will take time."

He was of the view that inflation was an international phenomenon and all the departments would need to work together in order to curtail it. Dawood said the second phase of China-Pakistan Free Trade Agreement (FTA) was a great opportunity to benefit from it. He also said a facility of safeguard measures was also available under the FTA to provide protection to local industry from any threats. Industrial development was vital for increasing exports, he said, adding that the industry was heading towards betterment and there was a need to widen our product range.

While giving his suggestions, Pakistan Readymade Garments Manufacturers and Exporters Association (PRGMEA) chief coordinator Ijaz A Khokhar said Pakistani businessmen are facing problems in getting visas for China. He said they are getting 15 days visas while the Chinese businessman are getting six months visa for Pakistan. He demanded that Pakistani businessmen should be given six months visa like the Europe and America. He further said the businessmen are facing problems in setting up offices in China. He also suggested that raw material should not be exported in huge amount.