Source: National Herald Tribune
Publisher: National Herald Tribune
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. National Herald Tribune. 
Publication Date: Jan 08, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Ten-member delegation of RCCI calls on Chinese Ambassador

Snippet: A ten member delegation of the Rawalpindi Chamber of Commerce and Industry (RCCI) led by President Malik Shahid Saleem called on Chinese ambassador Yao Jing here on Tuesday at Islamabad Embassy. While talking to the RCCI delegation, ambassador Yao Jing said that China had invested in Power and Infrastructure that resulted in improved electricity and better road network in Pakistan under China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC). CPEC will help Pakistan, improve the level of peoples' living standard and to see the country prosperous, he added. It has substantial role in enhancing the country's Gross Domestic Product, ambassador further added. He said that Pakistan and China are enjoying best mutual, trade, bilateral, cultural and social relations.

Body: 
Yao Jing appreciated the role of RCCI in promoting trade relations between the two countries and said that his office would provide full assistance to RCCI in organizing exhibitions and this year Chinese companies will also participate in RCCI International Rawal Expo 2019. RCCI president Malik Shahid Saleem said China is a trustworthy and close friend of Pakistan. The joint ventures under CPEC Special Economic Zones (SEZ) between Chinese and Pakistani companies will increase the ownership of the key stakeholders and will help local industry to boost up. The joint ventures between Chinese and Pakistani companies will increase the ownership of the key stakeholders, he added.He urged that technology transfer is the hour of need and Chinese investors can play an important role in training local labor force through JVs. The success of this key mega project will bring the economic revolution in the country and the region.