Source: Pakistan Press International
Publisher: Pakistan Press International Information Services
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Press International 
Publication Date: Oct 27, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Government of Sindh launches most reliable and well-connected Special Economic Zone of the country in Dhabeji - Press Note issued by Information and Archives Department

Snippet: October 28, 2019 (PPI-OT)

Following is the text of press note issued by Information and Archives Department

Body: 
Quote

The Government of Sindh has launched the most reliable and well-connected Special Economic Zone of the country in district Thatta near Port Qasim. In this connection Sindh Economic Zones Management Company (SEZMC) being the provincial SEZ custodian has invited proposals for the development and operation of Dhabeji project through an advertisement published in leading National and International Newspapers.

Dhabeji Special Economic Zone has also been highlighted in the recent joint working group of industrial cooperation under China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC). The Chinese side during the JWG appreciated Government of Sindh on the progress made so far. It is pertinent to mention here that the senior officials of National Development Reforms Commission (NDRC) of China showed their satisfaction on the proposed mechanism of this project.

The Government of Sindh has launched this project through international competitive bidding process as a build-up to the upcoming 10th Joint Coordination Committee (JCC) meeting between China and Pakistan which is being held in next month. The Government of Pakistan has already been committed to provide utilities including Electricity and gas at the doorsteps of this zone and in this regard Federal Government has budgeted rupees 4 billion for a dedicated grid station.

The Dhabeji Special Economic Zone consists on 1530 acres of land. The project is already declared as a "Priority Special Economic Zone" by the Government of Pakistan under the industrial cooperation phase of CPEC. The project will offer state of the art infrastructure, utilities at the doorsteps and easy access to the Ports of Karachi i.e. Karachi Port and Port Qasim and the main railway line (ML-1) and also to National highway.

This most viable and well-connected industrial zone of the region provides a gateway to Central Asia, South Asia, Middle East and Africa. The project is expected to generate employment opportunities, create socio economic development and strengthen poverty alleviation in the region. Furthermore the project will also help in boosting our exports.

For more information, contact:Information and Archives DepartmentDirectorate of Press InformationGovernment of Sindh95-Sindh Secretariat 4-B, Karachi, PakistanTel: +92-21-99204423, +92-21-99204401Email: pressinformationzubair@gmail.comWebsite: http://sindhinformation.gos.pk

Unquote