Source: Frontier Star
Publisher: Frontier Star Publisher
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 Asianet-Pakistan 
Publication Date: Apr 25, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,easiaz,chinaz,pakis,apacz,asiaz,bric,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: PM Imran Khan leaves for four-day official visit to China

Snippet: Prime Minister Imran Khan left for China on Thursday on a four-day official visit to attend the Second Belt and Road Forum in Beijing.

In a statement before departure, he expressed resolve to take all weather strategic cooperative partnership to newer heights.

Body: 
The Prime Minister expressed confidence that his visit will be instrumental to further expanding the scope and depth of the bilateral ties.

He said China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) is a flagship project of Belt and Road Initiative. CPEC will remain the top priority of his government.

Imran Khan said in Phase II of CPEC, we are jointly focusing on socio-economic development, job creation, livelihood projects and accelerating cooperation in agriculture and industrial cooperation including Special Economic Zones.

The Prime Minister said China is our closest friend and iron brother. I look forward to meet my good friends President Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang for an in-depth exchange of views on all issues of mutual interest.

Imran Khan said it is a matter of great satisfaction for him that Pakistan-China bilateral ties are not only based on convergence of interests but are rooted in common experiences of past and high level of mutual trust and understanding.

This friendship is ingrained in the hearts and minds of our people. It would remain unaffected by any regional and international developments.

The Prime Minister endorsed China's vision of a peaceful world based on win-win cooperation and community of shared destiny and a new model of development envisioned in President Xi's Belt and Road Initiative.

Prime Minister Imran Khan is paying the visit at the invitation of Chinese President Xi Jinping.

The Prime Minster will deliver a keynote speech in the opening ceremony of the Forum today (Friday).

The Prime Minister will also attend Leaders' Roundtable with leaders from around thirty-eight countries.

Imran Khan will also hold meetings with several heads of state and government, including President Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang, and corporate and business leaders on the sidelines of the Second Belt and Road Forum.

Pakistan and China will also sign several memoranda of understanding and agreements to enhance bilateral cooperation in diverse areas.

Following the Forum, the Prime Minister will address a Pakistan Business and Investment Forum on Sunday, which will be attended by prominent Pakistani and Chinese businessmen.

The Prime Minister will also participate in Beijing International Horticultural Exhibition along with President Xi Jinping and other world leaders.

Pakistan and China are "all weather strategic cooperative partners".

The two countries have always stood by each other through the tests of time.

The leadership of both countries is committed to further strengthen this friendship by enhancing mutually beneficial economic and commercial relations.

The visit of the Prime Minister will be instrumental in taking Pakistan-China bilateral relations to new heights.