Source: Pakistan Observer
Publisher: Pakistan Observer
Byline: Zubair Qureshi 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Observer 
Publication Date: Aug 07, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,pakis,chinaz,apacz,asiaz,bric,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Embassy hosts farewell for Pakistani recipients of Chinese government scholarships Ambassador asks young scholars to enjoy their stay and studies in China

Snippet: Some scholarships Ambassador of China in Pakistan Yao Jing while congratulating the Pakistani students on their selection for various undergraduate, graduate, post-graduate and doctorate scholarships in various Chinese universities said they had ample opportunities of learning in China.

'This is going to be exciting time for you as you will be staying for two to four years in a different country away from home and the best way to spend this time is to develop friendly interaction with your on-campus counterparts and in this way you will enjoy your stay and studies both.'

Body: 
The ambassador was addressing the scholarship awarding ceremony organized in honour of the Pakistani recipients of the scholarships for the year 2019 by the embassy here on Wednesday.

These students are on way to China to get education in a diverse range of studies ranging from agriculture to aeronautical engineering, medicines to computer sciences.

Every year China accepts Pakistani students at its universities through shortlisting. These students get admission at various Chinese universities by applying through HEC, Chinese universities and the embassy of China.

Director General Academics and Human Resource Development (HRD) Higher Education Commission (HEC) Muhammad Raza Chohan represented the HEC on the occasion.

A total of 106 students for the above-mentioned programmes have been selected this year to further study at the prestigious Chinese universities. In the Wednesday ceremony, more or less all the recipients were present, some with their family members, full of excitement at the threshold of a new career in their lives.

Ambassador Yao Jing said China enjoyed deep, cordial relations with Pakistan and 'it is promising and encouraging to see youths joining this friendship.'

He wished them well for their future endeavours and assured them that Embassy of China would always be there to help them out in case of emergency or if they had some query.

Raza Chohan while wishing the Pakistani recipients all the best for their further studies advised them to learn from Chinese nation secret of their success. HEC has been facilitating the Pakistani students to take advantage of the Chinese government's offer for completing their courses in the Chinese universities. 'This is of utmost importance and will contribute to your understanding of a diverse culture,' said Mr Chohan.

Pakistan with over 60pc youth bulk needs to invest in its academia and youths so that they could turn out to be an asset for the nation, said he. He asked the Pakistani students to develop linkages between academia and industry. 'In china you should act as ambassador of Pakistan and on you return you should act as ambassador China in Pakistan,' said the HEC director general.

He asked them to be a catalyst of socio-economic progress in Pakistan. Misbah Hussain one of the scholarship recipients and Dr Nadeem Akhtar former graduate from China's university also spoke on the occasion. Nadeem Akhtar gave the visiting students useful tips to overcome socio-cultural, academic and psychological challenges in China.