Source: Frontier Star
Publisher: Frontier Star Publisher
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 Asianet-Pakistan 
Publication Date: Sep 19, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: China decides to open visa office in Peshawar

Snippet: China has decided to open visa office in Peshawar to further boost economic relations with Pakistan.

This was told by Chinese Ambassador to Pakistan Yao Jing while talking to media during his visit to China Window in Peshawar on Thursday.

Body: 
Yao Jing said the first Small Economic Zone of CPEC in Rashakai will be operational this year which will help in poverty alleviation.

Answering a question, the Chinese Ambassador said Kashmir is an international dispute and any unilateral action to change its special status is not acceptable.

He stressed the need for resolving the Kashmir dispute through peaceful dialogue for maintaining regional peace and stability.

The ambassador was briefed about the various galleries of the cultural center including literature and photo galleries, CPEC and Pak-China friendship wall.

Yao Jing hailed the friendly attitude of Pakistani people towards China besides their hospitality.

Meanwhile Yao Jing called on the Governor Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Shah Farman here at Governor House Peshawar on Thursday.

He remained with the Governor for some time and discussed matters of mutual interests and relations between the two countries.

On this occasion, the governor said that KP land is enriched in fruit production and olive plantation and suggested that China can cooperate and invest in fruits and olive plantation in the province.

Khyber Pakhtunkhwa has huge potential in fruit and olive production as a larger barren land in the province can be utilized for the purpose, he said.

The governor said that China and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa should have to work together to develop and make this idea successful.

The governor also showed his interest to hold Mineral based Road Show in China to attract Chinese investors for investment in KP mineral sectors.

He said there are different kinds of valuable and precious minerals in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa which needs investor's attention and mineral Based road Show in China could be useful in highlighting KP based minerals.