Source: Pakistan Observer
Publisher: Pakistan Observer
Byline: Zubair Qureshi 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Observer 
Publication Date: Mar 25, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Chinese business companies seek better investment environment CPEC to help both countries discover new avenues of bilateral cooperation, says Chairman CPSSC Lv Xinuha

Snippet: China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) offers immense trade and business opportunities to the enterprises and business entities of both countries and through this mega project more incentives and initiatives will keep flowing for the good of the entire region.

This was said by Chairman of Council for Promoting South-South Cooperation (CPSSC), a non-government organization (NGO) of China entrusted to promote overseas trade and investment opportunities Mr Lv Xinhua during an interview with media persons here Monday.

Body: 
Mr Xinuha who is currently visiting Pakistan leading a delegation of 28 business enterprises and a total of 40 entities briefed the media persons at his hotel room about the purpose of his two-and-a-half day stay in Pakistan saying it is to better investment environment between the two countries and hold meetings with officials and businesses for the ease of doing business for Chinese companies.

During this period, Chinese business companies will have close interaction with their Pakistani counterparts to learn from each other's experience and strike a common cord of interest.

'I am in Pakistan to meet the officials as well as local companies' representatives, trade and investment regulatory bodies so that business between the two countries could flourish in a hassle-free environment,' he said. To a question about CPSSC, he said all progress in trade and investment between China and Pakistan can be defined as South-South Cooperation and it covers all the energy and electricity projects, roads and infrastructure, port and industry etc. Belt and Road cooperation has strengthened Pak-China cooperation and Chinese business companies are looking towards this market for investment and trade purposes.

Mr Xinhua made it clear that he was not in Pakistan to sign a deal or an MoU, however he said there was some possibility of the same in future. Chinese investors are keen to invest in energy, electricity, environment protection, textile and chemical sectors, he said. Since Chinese investors are interested in making investment in Pakistan I am here to create good business environment for them, said Mr Xinhua.

To a question, he said Pakistan has recently announced a number of incentives for foreign investors and I hope the government takes care of the needs of the Chinese investors. To a question, Mr Xinhua said he saw Pakistan on the same path that China has treaded during last 40 years of opening up and reform.

About South-South Cooperation and its role in boosting bilateral trade, he said the CPSSC works under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and around 120 enterprises are its members while more than 100 senior retired Chinese diplomats are serving to make the council watch interests of the Chinese business companies overseas and generate smooth trade and investment environment.

About doing business in Pakistan, he said when we mention Pakistan in China people think of a country that is friendly and close to their hearts. About business problems for Chinese companies, he said there is no country where you don't face problems but with discussion and consultation you come over them.