Source: The Express Tribune
Publisher: The Express Tribune
Byline: Mohammad Zafar 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. The Express Tribune News Network. 
Publication Date: Mar 19, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,pakis,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Work on mineral policy under way: Balochistan CM

Snippet: Balochistan Chief Minister Jam Kamal Khan on Tuesday assured the Chinese investors during a meeting that the provincial government was working on a new policy to upgrade the mineral resources sector in order to boost revenue generation.

'The provincial government is taking solid measures to upgrade the infrastructure of the mining sector and provide all facilities to the investors,' said the chief minister while talking to Metallurgical Corporation of China (MCC) President He Xuping.

Body: 
MCC Vice President Ma Weiqing and other officials were present.

CM Kamal, 'Positive steps will attract investors to the mining sector while ensuring proper security arrangements for them.'

Briefing the CM, the MCC officials said, 'The MCC is expanding the Saindak project while work on Dhodar project is in progress.'

They apprised the CM of the initiatives taken by their company for the upgradation of the mining and social sectors. 'Local people have been given employment by the company,' the officials said.

Upgrading mining sector to lift province out of poverty: CM

The Chinese authorities appreciated the chief minister's vision and provincial government's steps for the development of the mining sector.

CM Kamal assured the Chinese investors of the federal and provincial governments' full cooperation in both Saindak and Dhodar projects, urging the MCC officials to work on more projects in collaboration with the provincial government, so the people of the province could benefit.

'The Balochistan government is working with MCC and seeks investment from other companies in development projects to generate more revenue,' the CM added.

Jam Kamal elected as Balochistan's CM

Peaceful environment

Separately, in a meeting with the chief minister, Hub Pak Salt Refinery Chief Executive Officer Ismail Hussain expressed his company's interest in investing in the salt preparation sector in the coastal area of Kalmat.

Minerals, energy and industries' secretaries were also present.

The CM said Balochistan's long beach had tremendous opportunities for investment in fishing and tourism sectors.

Kamal assured them that the government would provide a peaceful environment and all the facilities to the investors in the province.

He said, 'In preparation of salt in coastal areas, protection of marine life and promotion of tourism are connected with each other.'

CEO Hussain said, 'There will be job opportunities also for the local people. Approximately 24 metric tons of salt annually would be obtained from the project, which will be used for different industries except food.'

He offered partnership to the Balochistan government in the project.

Showing interest in the project, the CM directed the concerned departments to review the project from all aspects in partnership, especially under public-private partnership.