Source: Frontier Star
Publisher: Frontier Star Publisher
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 Asianet-Pakistan 
Publication Date: Jan 02, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Frigate being constructed at Chinese shipyard to strengthen PN's capability to respond future challenges

Snippet: The Type 054 AP frigate being constructed at a Chinese shipyard for Pakistan Navy (PN) will strengthen its capability to respond future challenges, maintain peace and stability and balance of power in Indian Ocean region.

Once constructed, it will be one of the largest and technologically advanced platforms of Pakistan Navy, a senior military researcher told China Daily on Wednesday.

Body: 
Cao Weidong, a senior researcher at the PLA's Naval Military Studies Research Institute, said in the past, the Pakistani Navy would ask its Chinese contractors to use Western radars or weapons on ships constructed by Chinese shipbuilders because it believed Western naval technologies were better than Chinese ones.

'But it seems that all weapons and radars on the new ship will be Chinese products, which reflects our progress in the industry and the Pakistani Navy's confidence in our technology and capability,' he said.

Cao said there are many nations selling frigates in the market, so Pakistan must have made thorough comparisons in terms of combat capability and costs.

'I believe the reason they chose our type is that ours is one of the few that can carry out all of the air-defense, anti-ship, and anti-submarine tasks,' he said, expecting the service of the Chinese frigate to substantially boost Pakistan's defense capability.

An expert in China's shipbuilding sector with knowledge of the Type 054AP program said that the ship is the largest and most powerful combat vessel China has ever exported.

The ship will have vertical launch cells that can fire Chinese HQ-16 air-defense missiles and other kinds of missiles.

Vertical launch cells will bring flexibility to the user in terms of weapons portfolio, thus giving it a stronger fighting capability, he said, adding that the Type 054AP is the best frigate Pakistan can access in the international market.

'The service of Type 054APs will double the combat power of the Pakistan Navy's surface fleet,' he said.

According to China State Shipbuilding Corp, a large State-owned defense exporter, China had recently started construction of an export version of one of its advanced warships and will deliver it to Pakistan.

It said the ship is a version of the Chinese Navy's most advanced guided missile frigate. The ship is under construction at its Hudong-Zhonghua Shipyard in Shanghai, noting it will be equipped with modern detection and weapon systems and will be capable of anti-ship, anti-submarine, and air-defense operations.

According to the Pakistani Navy, the ship's class is Type 054AP, which means it is based on the Type 054A of the People's Liberation Army Navy.

The ship Type 054A is the best frigate in service with the PLA Navy and has a fully loaded displacement of about 4,000 metric tons and is equipped with advanced radars and missiles. About 30 Type 054As are in service with the PLA Navy, observers said.