Source: Dawn
Publisher: Pakistan Herald Publications (Pvt.) Limited
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Dawn 
Publication Date: Jul 05, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Training courses for women in jewellery-making soon

Snippet: The Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Technical Education and Vocational Training Authority (KP-Tevta) would launch gems and jewellery-making training programme for women in September this year in the provincial capital.

KP-Tevta managing director Sajjad Ali Shah told mediapersons here on Friday that the programme would be first of its kind and would impart jewellery-making skills to women. He said that the authority had bought machinery for the centre at the cost of Rs40 million, which would be started at one of the authority-run centres in Hayatabad.

Body: 
He said that work on the centre's own building was likely to be completed by December. However, the training programme would be launched by September and later shifted to its own building, he added.

Mr Shah said that the centre would impart training on polishing and cutting of gems and making of bracelet, necklace and other ornaments to those women who would enrol at the centre. He said that it would be the first female-only jewellery making training centre of the province.

KP-Tevta MD says govt focusing on technical education

He said that Tevta was acquiring industrial stitching and knitting machines for its Hayatabad centre from a Chinese company. He said that now the government was making investment in technical education sector and therefore it was necessary to spread awareness of these initiatives among the people.

The KP-Tevta MD said that currently Pakistan's technical education capacity stood at 400,000 persons while the government wanted to increase it up to one million per annum. He said that the Tevta had introduced several reforms, including revamping of its courses, teachers training and competency-based trainings.

He said that the EU had helped them in carrying out these reforms and majority of trades had been changed.

He said that at the federal level the government had framed National Skill Strategy and National Skill Policy. He said that they were also shifting from traditional to competency-based trainings and by September most of the courses were likely to shift to CBT mode.

He said that in addition the authority had embarked upon a teachers training programme. He said that they were also establishing industrial linkages to help provide jobs to the Tevta-trained persons. He said that in this regard they had deputed people at Hattar and Peshawar industrial estates, who had been keeping update of openings in industries.

Mr Shah said that they had also inked an MoU with a Chinese company to train KP workforce in Chinese language and technical trades.