Source: The Frontier Post
Publisher: The Frontier Post
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. The Frontier Post 
Publication Date: Nov 25, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: KP govt working to create conducive business environment for investors: CM

Snippet: Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Chief Minister Mahmood Khan Monday stated that the provincial government was being working on improving the overall business structure through ease of doing business to create conducive business environment for investors from China and other countries in the sectors of renewable Energy, Information Technology, Small/Medium Hydel Project, Mines and Minerals, Tourism, Agriculture, Live Stock and Light manufacturing sectors.

While addressing the Chinese and Pakistani investor delegations at the Chief Minister's House Peshawar, Mahmood Khan stated that through development of Rashakai and other Special Economic Zones, the provincial government will be able to create an appropriate environment where business to business and joint ventures will take place thereby increasing the prospects for investment in the province.

Body: 
It is pertinent to mention here that a delegation of 45 investors from China, headed by Chinese ex-ambassador and President of Pakistan friendship association with China Mr. Sha Zukang and Chinese Professor Mr. Tang Mengsheng of Peking University, met with their business counter parts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa at the Chief Minister House to discuss and deliberate on avenues of mutual interest and investment.

The delegation of Chinese investors included representatives from aircraft manufacturing, housing technology, construction engineering, Energy Saving, Environment Technology and Engineering, Environment Protection Technology, Energy Technology, Green and Energy, Poverty Evaluation Service, Investment Polling, High Tech Entrepreneurship, Enterprises Group and others.

Mahmood Khan stated that the history of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and the Silk Road goes a long way when merchants from China and Central Asia used to come to Peshawar en-route to Rome.

He said that the incumbent government is now taking all out measures to make the province and important trans-regional hub of trade activity again.

The Chief Minister stated that through CPEC, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa is opening its doors for investors to the enormous natural resources and beautiful scenic sites of the province adding that the implementation of Suki Kinari Hydel Project, Rashaki Special Economic Zone, Havelian Thakot Highway, Swat Express Way, Peshawar to D.I Khan Expressway and the Havelian dry port as part of ML-1 Project will bring new opportunities and prosperity to the province.

'We are creating a suitable environment for promoting Eco tourism and environment-friendly Industrialization so as to bring enormous employment opportunities and economic growth in the province,' the Chief Minister said.

The Chief Minister urged foreign and Pakistani business community to explore the opportunities in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa adding that the provincial government is in the process of improving the Industrial as well as Incentive Policy to make them attractive for investors to encourage industrialization for sustainable development of this naturally gifted province adding that for economic growth and development, the provincial government is focused on value addition in the existing Mining and Agriculture sectors, so as to improve exports to large markets like China and others.

On the occasion Chinese ex-ambassador and President of Pakistan friendship association with China Mr. Sha Zukang said that Pakistan is not one of the best but actually is the best friend of China.

'Pakistan and China are not good or bad weathers friends but are all weather friends,' Zukang said and added that Pakistan and China are developing countries.

'We call it a poor is helping a poor' he said and added that CPEC is the flagship project between the two countries.

Mr. Sha Zakung stated that Chinese investors should come to Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province as they will find huge investment opportunities here.

'Peshawar, geographically, is the nearest city to China,' he remarked and added that is the best place for investment.

He maintained that for investments in KP and particularly in Peshawar stakeholders need a proper communication and focal point.

Chinese Professor Mr. Tang Mengsheng of Peking University also spoke on the occasion and in his Urdu speech he said Pakistan-China friendship has no precedent in the world.

'Our friendship is getting popular day by day as we have close cultural bonds,' he said and added that said that Chinese should come to visit and invest in KP.

Mr. Tang said that Pakistan and China have always been standing each others in every situation and their friendship is time tested friendship.

The ceremony was also attend by Minister for Sport and Tourism Mr. Atif Khan, Minister Finance Taimur Salim Jhagra, Minister for Mines and Minerals Dr. Amjad Ali Khan, Special Assistant to CM for Industries Abdul Karim Khan, Special Assistant to CM for IT Kamran Bangash, MPA and DDAC Chairman Fazal Hakeem Khan, Principal Secretary to CM Shahab Ali Shah and others.