Source: The News International
Publisher: The News International, Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019 The News International 
Publication Date: Mar 25, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,chinaz,easiaz,pakis,apacz,asiaz,bric,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: China donates $200,000 to PRCS for Balochistan flood victims

Snippet: China has provided emergency relief fund to Pakistan Red Crescent Society for relief operation in Balochistan, where heavy rainfalls caused serious damage and losses of lives.

On behalf of the Red Cross Society of China, Chinese Ambassador to Pakistan Yao Jing the other day handed over the cheque $200,000 to Governor Baluchistan Justice (R) Amanullah Khan Yasinzai and PRCS Secretary General Khalid Bin Majeed during a ceremony held at Balochistan House. PRCS Officers were also present at the occasion.

Body: 
Governor Yasinzai said that some areas of the province were badly affected by the recent rains. He welcomed the Chinese government over the provision of financial aid for rehabilitation of rain affected persons in Balochistan.

Speaking at the occasion, Secretary General Khalid Bin Majeed thanked Yao Jing for the generous support and conveyed the message of PRCS Chairman Dr Saeed Elahi to Chinese Ambassador stating that the donation would help in alleviating the suffering of flood victims in Baluchistan province.

'The help reflects that the whole Chinese nation stands with the Pakistani brethren in this hour of need. This would further strengthen people-to-people relations,' he added. He said the PRCS relief operation is ongoing in flood affected areas of Baluchistan. The Society distributed NFIs among more than 100 families in Lasbela district, distribution of food items among the flood affected families is ongoing in Khuzdar, Chaghi, Ziarat and other districts where more than 4000 families shall benefit.

Khalid Bin Majeed said that The Red Cross Society of China has always been in the forefront in provision of relief items and healthcare to PRCS during major disasters, be it the earthquake 2005 or the floods of 2010-2011, 2013 and 2014.

During the handover ceremony, the Chinese ambassador said China attaches importance to friendly exchanges and cooperation with Balochistan and is willing to help Balochistan's development, hoping the assistance could support the province's disaster relief works.

At the end of ceremony, Secretary General Khalid Bin Majeed presented mementos to Governor Baluchistan Justice (R) Amanullah Khan Yasinzai and Chinese Ambassador to Pakistan Mr. Yao Jing.