Source: Pakistan Observer
Publisher: Pakistan Observer
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Observer 
Publication Date: Jul 26, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: 2022 space mission

Snippet: WITH the cooperation of China, Pakistan will achieve yet another milestone and that in the area of space technology. Minister for Science and Technology Fawad Chaudhry announced on Thursday that Pakistan will send its first person into space in 2022 with the cooperation of China.

Body: 
Certainly this will be the biggest space event of Pakistan history that will open more doors for the country to use the outer space for peaceful purposes and made its mark at the world stage. The way our Chinese friends are extending cooperation to Pakistan in different fields including space technology to help the country catch up with the world is really admirable and really manifests how strong are the bonds between the two neighbouring countries which in fact are an example for the whole world. We have no doubt in saying that this friendship has no parallel whatsoever. Cooperation in the space field was signed between the two countries during the visit of Prime Minister Imran Khan to China in the month of April. Under this agreement both the nations will conduct scientific and technological experiments, astronaut training along with manned space applications and achievement transformation. Since China is making major strides not only on economic and defence fronts but also the space technology and has a very active space program, our relevant institutions including SUPARCO need to stay engaged with its Chinese counterparts to benefit from their rich experience.

Jointly, we should launch more joint missions; work more extensively on space projects focusing on satellite networks and conduct extensive researches on the subject. The development of space programme entails many benefits as it will help the country track down the challenges in climate, identify precise causes and create programmes to mitigate the effects of damage done to the atmosphere. This will contribute to research and technological development in the field of meteorology. This will also trigger scientific development and young minds will be inspired to contribute towards their nation's scientific endeavours. We are confident that with Ministers like Fawad Chaudhry in charge of Science and Technology, efforts will be geared up to generate interest amongst the youth in degrees such as aeronautical engineering in order to propel the nation to the final frontier.