Source: Daily Messenger
Publisher: Daily Messenger
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Daily Messenger 
Publication Date: Aug 29, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,chinaz,easiaz,pakis,apacz,asiaz,bric,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: 21 Pakistani scholars to proceed to China under HEC-CRBC scholarship programme

Snippet: The Higher Education Commission (HEC) organised on Thursday a send-off ceremony in honour of 21 Pakistani scholars proceeding to China under 'Inherit of Pak-China Friendship, Hundred Talent Study Financing Programme.' Wang Zhuhai, Chinese Economic and Commercial Counsellor, Chinese Embassy was chief guest on the occasion. Lt. Gen (R) Muhammad Asghar, Executive Director HEC, Li Zhihuai, General Manager CRBC, diplomats, dignitaries, and HEC's senior management graced the occasion along with the selected scholars. HEC and China Road and Bridge Corporation (CRBC), a state-owned company of the People's Republic of China signed a Memorandum of Understanding in 2017 to initiate the Inherit of Pak-China Friendship, Hundred Talent Study Financing Programme. Speaking on the occasion, Zhuhai congratulated the Pakistani scholars proceeding to study in a top-ranked Chinese University.

Body: 
He stressed the need for promoting people-to-people exchange between China and Pakistan through initiatives like the HEC-CRBC Scholarship Programme. He said that human resource cooperation between the two countries is vital to enhance the bilateral relations. He affirmed that China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) will further cement the relations, adding that the project has entered a new phase as a large number of Chinese companies are investing in the project. In his remarks, the Executive Director termed the award of scholarships a good opportunity for the scholars to not only acquire education but also to learn Chinese culture and traditions.

He advised the students not to limit the scope of their education to a degree and expand their canvas to learning about the vast spectrum of engineering, covering logistics, infrastructure, and impact. He said transportation engineering has become a destiny of all nations, as it plays a pivotal role in development of countries. Shedding light on the evolution of transportation sector over the years, he said the high-speed railway track transportation system of China has shrunk the distances and taught the world a lesson about importance of time. 'Go with an aim to learn from China as to how the Chinese manage time, work as a team, and come up with masterpieces' he emphasised.