Source: Pakistan Press International Information Services
Publisher: Pakistan Press International Information Services
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Press International Information Services 
Publication Date: Apr 11, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,saarab,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,gulfstz,indsubz,meastz,sasiaz,wasiaz,

Title: Aviation Minister briefed media about the achievements of CAA - Press Release issued by Pakistan Civil Aviation Authority

Snippet: April 12, 2019 (PPI-OT)

Following is the text of press release issued by Pakistan Civil Aviation Authority (CAA)

Body: 
Quote

Federal Minister for Aviation and Privatization Mohammad Mian Soomro announced the Road to Makkah initiative for Hajj 2019, which will facilitate the pilgrims for reaching Makkah from Islamabad now in 6 to 6:30 hours instead of 12 to 15 hours.

This plan was announced in a press briefing at Pakistan Civil Aviation Authority Headquarters on April 11, 2019. Deputy Director General (Airport Services) Syed Aamir Mehboob, Director (P and D) Nadir Shafi Daar, Director (APS) Sadiqur Rehman and Director (Engineering Services) Sumair Saeed were also present on the occasion.

Informing the journalists about the background of the project, Minister said that Prime Minster Imran Khan had requested the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia for the provision of the referred service to Pakistan during his recent visit to Islamabad.

Federal Minister said that according to this project, pilgrims will complete all Immigration and Health formalities at Islamabad airport which were earlier being done at Jeddah airport. Based on its results the Road to Makkah project/process will be extended to other airports of Pakistan as well.

"After this initiative now pilgrim will reach at Jeddah Airport from Islamabad as a domestic passenger, this will save their almost half time": He added. Minister said that the New Aviation Policy 2019, which was drafted in line with the vision and directives of the Prime Minister Imran Khan, will attract more airlines in the country which eventually will boost aviation sector and create job opportunities. Briefing about re-operationalization of non-functional airports, Minister said that Pakistan Civil Aviation Authority has been tasked to bring Saidu Sharif, Chitral, Muzaffarabad, Rawalakot, Parachinar and D.I Khan Airports in operational state within two months' time.

He further said that initial survey at Saidu Sharif, Chitral, Muzaffarabad, Rawalakot and D.I Khan airports have been carried out where as it is currently in progress in Parachinar Airport, which (initial survey) will be completed in the next two to three days.

"Necessary approvals with respect to Chitral and Saidu Sharif Airports have already been accorded by the CAA Executive Committee. The remaining shall also be processed shortly," he added. Giving details of the Clean and Green Pakistan Program of Prime Minister Imran Khan which is going on in CAA, Soomro said that nearly 1,00,000 orchards, plants and shrubs in total will be planted at three major airports of Pakistan every year till 2022.

Mohammad Mian Soomro further said that PIA will become a profitable organization after three years. Present government has taken positive steps for the betterment of all institutions and departments, its results are coming and deficit has been reduced.

For more information, contact:Sr. Public Relations Manager,Pakistan Civil Aviation Authority (CAA)Headquarters, Jinnah International Airport,Terminal 1 Building, Karachi, PakistanTel: +92-21-99071111Email: support@caapakistan.com.pkWebsite: http://www.caapakistan.com.pk/

Unquote