Source: GlobalCapital
Publisher: Euromoney Trading Limited
Byline: Pan Yue 
Copyright: ©  Copyright 2019 Euromoney Institutional Investor plc. www.euroweek.com 
Publication Date: Jun 26, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,chinaz,easiaz,asiaz,pakis,apacz,bric,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Asian loans news in brief: June 27, 2019

Snippet: Country Garden seeks second borrowing in six months – UAF taps two banks for HK$1.6bn – Deutsche arranges $190m for Shangshi – Pakistan sovereign deal open – Malakoff woos banks to refi – IRFC pulls into Samurai market

Chinese real estate developer Country Garden has returned to the loan market, seeking $1bn from a deal helmed by six banks.

Body: 
Bank of China, China Construction Bank Asia, China Everbright Bank, China Citic Bank International, Industrial and Commercial Bank of China and Wing Lung Bank are the mandated lead arrangers and bookrunners, said a banker close to the situation.

The deal has a tenor of four year and amortises over 3.75 years. The margin is set at 295bp over Libor, said the banker, who declined to disclose further pricing details about the commitment levels on offer.

The proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes.

The deadline for commitments is end of July.

This was the second borrowing from the Hong Kong-listed property firm in six months. Last December, Country Garden sealed a $930m dual-currency facility, which split into a HK$3.47bn ($444m) tranche and a $486.2m portion, according to a stock exchange filing. The tenor was three years.

HSBC and ICBC Asia were the MLABs. The proceeds were for refinancing debt.

UAF taps two banks

for HK$1.6bn loan

United Asia Finance, a personal loan provider in Hong Kong, is seeking a HK$1.6bn ($205m) borrowing in syndication.

Mizuho and Standard Chartered are the mandated lead arrangers and bookrunners, according to a banker who received the invitation.

The deal has an average life of three years. It offers a margin of 190bp over Hibor — the same margin that UAF offered for its loan last year. But this time, the participation fees are 15bp lower.

Mandated lead arrangers committing HK$300m and above receive a 75bp fee for 215bp all-in, lead arrangers committing HK$200m-HK$290m receive 60bp for 210bp all-in, and arrangers committing HK$100m-HK$190m make 45bp for 205bp all-in.

The proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes. Lenders have until July 19 to make commitments.

UAF, formerly known as Japan Finance (International), is controlled by financial services firm Sun Hung Kai & Co.

It is a frequent borrower in the loan market. UAF closed a HK$4.7bn fundraising last July, which started at an initial size of HK$1.6bn, led by Mizuho, Standard Chartered and Taipei Fubon Bank. It received a strong response during syndication, attracting 18 participants.

That loan had a door-to-door life of four years with an average life of three years. The all-ins ranged from 210bp to 220bp.

Shangshi seeks $190m

via Deutsche Bank

Shanghai Shangshi (Group), part of Chinese state-owned Shanghai Industrial Investment Holdings, is tapping the offshore loan market for $190m.

Deutsche Bank is the sole mandated lead arranger and bookrunner, according to a banker who received the invitation.

The loan has a tenor of three years with bullet repayment. The margin is set at 220bp over Libor. Two ticket levels are open to lenders. Those committing $30m and more can earn a 60bp fee for 240bp all-in, and those chipping in between $15m and $29m earn a 45bp fee for 235bp all-in.

A special purpose vehicle under Shangshi is the borrower, while the parent is providing a guarantee.

The loan will be used for refinancing. The deadline for commitments is July 12.

The State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission controls Shangshi, which is operated by its parent SIIC. Registered in Hong Kong, SIIC engages in pharmaceuticals, infrastructure, real estate consumer products and financial services.

In June last year, SIIC received a HK$1.5bn ($191m) club loan from Bank of Communications, DBS, Shanghai Pudong Development and United Overseas Bank, according to Dealogic.

That five year borrowing offered a margin of 130bp over Hibor.

Pakistan woos banks

for sovereign loan

Pakistan’s ministry of finance has made a quick loan comeback, six months after closing its last borrowing.

Credit Suisse is the sole mandated lead arranger and bookrunner, said a source close to the situation.

The lead bank advanced a $200m loan to the country in May, and is inviting more lenders to participate in the deal to increase its size.

The one year transaction offers the same margin as Pakistan’s last loan, said the source. The margin for Pakistan’s $245m deal sealed last December, also a one year facility, was 200bp over Libor, according to Dealogic.

The source declined to disclose the participation fees, but said it is slightly higher than last year’s borrowing.

The new deal will target the sovereign’s existing lenders and Chinese banks during syndication. Credit Suisse also led the country’s December fundraising. China Minsheng Bank, United Bank and National Bank of Pakistan participated, according to Dealogic.

In May, Pakistan and the International Monetary Fund reached a preliminary agreement on a $6bn three year bailout, which the country’s prime minister Imran Khan has been working on since he came to office last year.

Separately, Laos’s ministry of finance received a $150m-equivalent five year euro denominated loan from Credit Suisse. The source said that this deal will be syndicated if the sovereign decides to boost the loan size.

The proceeds will be used to support the country’s long-term investments.

Malakoff returns for

A$140m refinancing

Malaysia’s utilities and infrastructure company Malakoff Corp has launched a A$140m ($96.8m) refinancing loan into general syndication.

Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp is the sole mandated lead arranger and bookrunner for the facility, according to a source close to the deal.

The loan has a door-to-door life of three years. The average life is 2.565 years, assuming drawdown in mid-August. It offers a margin of 143bp over the bank bill swap bid rate.

Two ticket levels are up for grabs. Lead arrangers committing A$20m or more receive a 30bp fee for 154.7bp all-in, and arrangers committing A$10m-A$19m earn a 20bp fee for 150.8bp all-in.

Malakoff International is the borrower while the parent company is providing a guarantee.

The proceeds will be used to refinance a A$140m three year deal raised in 2016. That facility was led by ANZ and SMBC, according to Dealogic. No pricing details were disclosed.

The 2016 fundraising, in turn, was used to refinance a A$150m three year bullet facility sealed in 2014, which was to fund the power company’s acquisition of a 50% stake in Macarthur wind farm in Australia from Meridian Energy.

Malakoff started as a plantation company, before switching focus to operate in the power sector.

IRFC taps Japanese

liquidity for $300m

Indian Railway Finance Corp has returned to the Samurai loan market for a $300m-equivalent deal.

Mizuho, MUFG Bank and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp are the three mandated lead arrangers and bookrunners, according to bankers.

The loan has a tenor of seven years with a bullet repayment structure — shorter than the 10 year deal the company sealed last year. It offers a margin of 90bp over JYP Libor.

Mandated lead arrangers committing ¥2bn and more receive a 21bp fee for 93bp all-in, and lead arrangers committing ¥1bn to ¥1.9bn receive 10.5bp as fee for 91.5bp all-in. No participation fee will be offered to the arranger group, so lenders committing ¥500m and ¥900m make an all-in of 90bp.

A banker close to the situation said the reason for zero participation fee at the arranger level is because the leads believe the pricing is sufficient. He said that a number of banks have already shown an interest in it.

“There is no strategy for the distribution of the deal,” said another banker on the trade. “The pricing is good and the tenor is OK. We already received some responses, so I think it will have a successful syndication.”

IRFC will use the money to buy rolling stock.

The deadline for commitments is mid-July.

IRFC closed a $233.6m-equivalent Samurai loan with a 10 year maturity last September. The three Japanese mega banks only attracted three participants during syndication, according to Dealogic data. Pricing details of that facility were not disclosed.