Source: Economist Intelligence Unit - ViewsWire
Publisher: The Economist Intelligence Unit, N.A., Inc.
Byline: 
Copyright: (C) 2019 The Economist Intelligence Unit Ltd. 
Publication Date: Oct 13, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,pakis,chinaz,apacz,asiaz,bric,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Pakistan politics: Quick View - Prime minister visits China

Snippet: Event

The prime minister of Pakistan, Imran Khan, made an official visit to China on October 8th-9th, during which he held discussions with China's president, Xi Jinping, and premier, Li Keqiang.

Body: 
Analysis

This was Mr Khan's third trip to China since taking office as prime minister in July 2018, underscoring the robust diplomatic ties between the two countries. During the visit, Mr Khan-as expected-focused on lobbying for support for Pakistan's position on the Kashmir issue. The other main area of discussion was economic co-operation under the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) framework. For China, the CPEC-which is part of its global Belt and Road Initiative-remains an important link with Pakistan. For Pakistan, the programme represents its largest source of foreign investment, and we expect this to remain the case in the medium term.

However, under Mr Khan's government, some ongoing and planned CPEC projects have faced delays, owing to severe fiscal constraints. We expect Mr Khan to have reassured China of his administration's commitment to the CPEC. This was also reflected by an ordinance promulgated by Pakistan's president, Arif Alvi, on the eve of Mr Khan's departure to China, to establish a new government entity exclusively to oversee CPEC projects and monitor their implementation. Pakistani authorities also approved measures to expedite the development of the Gwadar port, one of the main components of the CPEC. This includes granting a 23-year tax holiday to a Chinese firm that won the contract for the port's operation. According to Dawn-a Pakistani newspaper-Pakistan has also proposed new CPEC projects to China, including an overland terminal to import liquefied natural gas (LNG) and a hydropower plant with a planned 7,000-MW generation capacity.

These developments reinforce our view that the CPEC will remain the fulcrum around which the two countries will enhance their future economic co-operation. However, fiscal constraints and rising public debt levels will slow the pace of CPEC-related projects, which will persist despite the new government agency. Moreover, it is notable China did not make any new pledges of loans or fiscal support to Pakistan during Mr Khan's latest trip. This reflects China's ongoing efforts to make the BRI more sustainable, which is likely to limit financing for CPEC projects going forward. Nevertheless, this will not affect broader China-Pakistan ties, which we expect to remain strong in 2020-24.