Source: Pakistan Press International Information Services
Publisher: Pakistan Press International Information Services
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Press International Information Services 
Publication Date: Apr 24, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,easiaz,chinaz,pakis,apacz,asiaz,bric,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Visit of Prime Minister to China, 25-28 April 2019 - Press Note issued by Ministry of Foreign Affairs

Snippet: April 25, 2019 (PPI-OT)

Following is the text of press note issued by Ministry of Foreign Affairs

Body: 
Quote

At the invitation of President Xi Jinping, Prime Minister Imran Khan is visiting China from April 25-28, 2019, to attend the 2nd Belt and Road Forum in Beijing. The Prime Minster will deliver a keynote speech in the opening ceremony of the Forum on 26 April.

The Prime Minister will also attend Leaders' Roundtable with leaders from around 38 countries. He will speak in the first session of Leaders' Roundtable. The Prime Minister would also hold meetings with several Heads of State/Government and corporate and business leaders on the sidelines of 2nd BRF.

In addition to participating in the Belt and Road Forum, the Prime Minister would hold bilateral meetings with President Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang. Pakistan and China will also sign several MoUs and Agreements to enhance bilateral cooperation in diverse areas.

Following the Forum, the Prime Minister will address a Pakistan Business and Investment Forum on 28th April, which will be attended by prominent Pakistani and Chinese businessmen. The Prime Minister will also participate in Beijing International Horticultural Exhibition along with President Xi Jinping and other world leaders.

Pakistan and China are "All Weather Strategic Cooperative Partners". Our friendship is based on mutual confidence and commonality of interests. The two countries have always stood by each other through the tests of time. The leadership of both countries is committed to further strengthen this friendship by enhancing mutually beneficial economic and commercial relations. The visit of the Prime Minister will be instrumental in taking Pakistan-China bilateral relations to new heights.

For more information, contact:SpokesmanMinistry of Foreign AffairsGovernment of PakistanTell: +92-51-9205494Fax: +92-51-9204202Cell: +92-336-5644459Website: www.mofa.gov.pk

Unquote