Source: Pakistan Observer
Publisher: Pakistan Observer
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Observer 
Publication Date: Nov 18, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: China-Pakistan to jointly build a 'Railway University': Rashid

Snippet: Federal Minister for Railways Sheikh Rashid Ahmed warned former prime minister Nawaz Sharif to not do politics over his health otherwise he may have to suffer consequences.

The federal minister addressed a ceremony on Monday at a government college in Rawalpindi and maintained that the federal government should also not appeal against the Lahore High Court (LHC) decision allowing the erstwhile premier to travel abroad without any conditionality.

Body: 
'I do not believe in doing politics over a sick man. Nawaz Sharif should be allowed to go abroad. The government should not go to the Supreme Court against the LHC verdict,' he said.

Sheikh Rashid further added that Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam-Fazal (JUI-F) President Maulana Fazal-ur-Rehman's misconception has ended and has come to know of the fact that no one is supporting him.

Pakistan Muslim League-Q (PML-Q) is standing with Prime Minister Imran Khan, the federal minister affirmed. He expressed unawareness about any change in the federal cabinet.

Sheikh Rashid Ahmed said he admits about the inflation and unemployment in the country, and assured that PM Imran Khan is working to overcome these challenges. He claimed that all detainees are considering plea bargain except PPP's Khurshid Shah.

Minister for Railway said that a Railway University will be established in cooperation with China in Pakistan. He said that the Railways infrastructure will be upgraded under the ML-1 project at a fast pace.

He said land for the university will be provided by the Railways which will be constructed with the investment of China, along with an IT University which will be established in Rawalpindi.

The minister reiterated that PTI government will complete its five years term and not budge or cave in due to the pressure being exerted by external forces.