Source: Pakistan Today
Publisher: Nawa Media (Pvt.) Limited
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Nawa Media (PVT.) Limited. 
Publication Date: May 26, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,pakis,laho,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: CM Buzdar, Chinese VP discuss industrial cooperation, agri development in Punjab

Snippet: Chinese Vice President Wang Qishan on Monday met with Punjab Chief Minister (CM) Sardar Usman Buzdar at his office and discussed various matters of mutual interest including the promotion of Pakistan-China relations, progress made on China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) related projects and the expansion of bilateral cooperation in various sectors including industrial cooperation, agricultural development and poverty alleviation in Punjab.

The Chinese ambassador, consul general, members of the Chinese delegation, besides Federal Minister Khusro Bakhtiar, Provincial Ministers Raja Basharat, Hashim Jawan Bakht, Dr Akhtar Malik, Advisor Dr Salman Shah, PBIT Chairman Tanveer Ilyas, chief secretary, P and D chairman and others were also present on the occasion.

Body: 
It was decided to further expand cooperation in trade, agriculture, and tourism sectors while both officials also decided to promote partnership between Punjab and major Chinese cities.

On the occasion, CM Buzdar said that China has helped 70-crore Pakistanis during the last 20 years to alleviate poverty and added that the same Chinese model will be implemented in Punjab to eradicate poverty completely.

'The Chinese VP has tremendously worked for the elimination of corruption and China is a role model for us for the eradication of corruption,' he said while adding that he is truly happy to be the host of the respected guest of a great friendly country.

'Chinese cooperation is praiseworthy in matters of national security and regional stability. Participation of Prime Minister (PM) Imran Khan in the second belt and road forum in China has yielded positive results. The Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) of the Chinese president is not just a regional, but a globally important game-changer initiative that focuses on industrial cooperation, agricultural development, and poverty alleviation,' he said.

He said that Chinese working on different projects in Pakistan are our brothers and added that a new history of the Pak-China friendship has been written due to CPEC. 'This friendship is also an asset for the future generations,' he added.

The chief minister said that a new period of economic development has started and investment made by the Chinese companies is praiseworthy. 'Our relations will be further strengthened due to Mr Wang Qisham's visit and cooperation will continue at every level for the completion of projects launched with Chinese cooperation in Punjab,' he further said.

The Chinese vice president said that he has come to Pakistan on the direction of the Chinese president and he wants to give a message to the world that the Pak-China friendship is very strong.

'Lahore has given immense love and affection and Pakistan-China friendship is based on even more durable foundations. Meetings with the Pakistani leadership have been positive and the leadership of our respective countries is very close to each other,' he said.

'The relations between the two countries are getting stronger day by day. Lahore is a historic city and it is a reality that he, who has not seen Lahore, has not seen Pakistan. Chinese cooperation in the journey of Pakistan's development will continue and CPEC. The partnership between Punjab and Chengdu will be expanded and we are ready to promote cooperation in different sectors between Lahore and Xi'an city,' he added.

'Promoting cooperation between Punjab and major Chinese cities in different sectors including culture and economy is the need of the hour. CPEC has proved to be a game-changer for the region and the pace of industrial development has been accelerated by expanding economic cooperation,' Wang Qishan concluded.