Source: Pakistan Observer
Publisher: Pakistan Observer
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Observer 
Publication Date: Nov 01, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: China holds int'l moot on CPEC

Snippet: An Int'l Conference on China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) held in the Chinese city of Wuhan this week discussed ways and means to promote construction and development of this mega project.

It was co-organized by the China University of Geosciences (Wuhan)'s China-Pakistan Economic Corridor Research Center, School of Public Administration and the Silk Road Institute.

Body: 
According to China Economic Net, during the two-day conference, scholars, experts and other guests from China and Pakistan discussed about the investment, employment, poverty alleviation, special economic zones and the China-Pakistan education cooperation and so on.

The conference was addressed among others by Abdul Samie, a senior official from the Pakistani Prime Minister's Office, who highlighted Pakistan's focus on CPEC for its smooth functioning.

The present government regards the CPEC as a gateway for progress and prosperity, which offers abundant opportunities. The government has made commitment to try their best to make CPEC a real trade and economic corridor.

According to Mr Samie, the government thinks that China's commitment plays an important role in Gwadar Port's development. The projects under CPEC in Gwadar not only boost the local economy but also create jobs for the youth.

As for the Special Economic Zones (SEZs), they will be developed by the investment in infrastructures or carrying on China's labor-intensive industries.

Pakistan will further improve business environment to attract more investments and expand goods and service exports to China. Tang Mengsheng, Director of Pakistan Research Center, Peking University, delivers at an international conference on the construction and development of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor held on Oct. 30-31 in Wuhan.