Source: The News International
Publisher: The News International, Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019 The News International 
Publication Date: Apr 06, 2019

Region Codes: ,laho,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Rashid apologises for inconvenience after derailment

Snippet: Railways Minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmad has once again apologised to the nation over extreme inconvenience faced by the passengers because of derailment of a freight train near Rahim Yar Khan on April 1.

Addressing a press conference at THE Railways Headquarters here on Saturday, he also announced dissolution of two committees formed earlier to investigate the derailment of the train which had badly affected the train schedule particularly on Lahore-Karachi track. He said a new committee, headed by Pakistan Railways Chairman Sikandar Sultan Raja, had been formed.

Body: 
Sheikh Rashid said that on the instructions of Prime Minister Imran Khan, Pakistan Railways had been assigned the task to deliver oil of the Pakistan State Oil (PSO) and following which that railways was expecting huge revenue. He also announced that in order to facilitate the passengers, an air conditioned coach would be added to Rehman Baba Express from April 15.

He said PM Imran Khan would be holding a meeting to discuss the upgrade of Main Line-1 (ML-a1) under the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC). 'I hope PM Imran Khan will sign this agreement during his visit to China on April 27 and this will be truly a revolution,' he added.

The minister also said fare for children to travel on Jinnah Express and Green Line Express had been reduced to 50 per cent of total ticket price. He said it was a great injustice that billions were spent on roads while not a single penny was spent on tracks and signals of Pakistan Railways in the past.

About the Royal Palm, he said its administration had not deposited any tax or payment to the railways since 2013 and hoped for a better judgment on the case on April 11.

Sheikh Rashid said even today 11 locomotives were extra (not being used) in the system and said he hoped to start a saloon train for those who could afford to travel on the same. He said 200 more coaches were being prepared on an urgent basis and claimed he would launch 20 new trains with these coaches and the existing staff of Pakistan Railways.