Source: Pakistan Observer
Publisher: Pakistan Observer
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Observer 
Publication Date: May 27, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,pakis,laho,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: CM warmly welcomes Chinese Vice President in city Qishan's visit to strengthen Pak-China relations further

Snippet: Vice President of People's Republic of China Wang Qishan on Monday visited Lahore where he was given a warm-welcome by Chief Minister Punjab Sardar Usman Buzdar at the Lahore Airport. The Chinese vice president warmly shook hands with the Chief Minister while little girls presented the bouquet to the Chinese Vice President.

Chief Minister introduced provincial ministers to the Chinese Vice President who shook hands with them. The provincial ministers welcomed him to Lahore. Talking on the occasion, the Chief Minister said that we welcome our brother to Lahore.

Body: 
Your arrival is an honor for the people of Punjab and we are very happy over your arrival. Your visit will further strengthen Pak-China relations and a new chapter of Pak-China friendship will start. The arrival of the Chinese Vice President to Pakistan is a matter of honor and pride for us.

The signing of agreements and MoUs will start a new era of development and prosperity, he said and added that the inauguration of CPEC projects is a welcome step. We welcome the Chinese Vice President to Lahore from the core of our hearts. The Chinese Vice President has brought the messages of love, he said. Chinese Vice President said that he is very happy to visit Lahore.

Chinese Ambassador Yao Jing, Consul General Long Dingbin and other members of the Chinese delegation were also present on the occasion. Provincial Ministers Raja Basharat, Mian Mehmood-ur-Rasheed, Samiullah Ch, Syed Sumsam Bukhari, Ansar Majeed Niazi, Dr. Yasmin Rashid, Ashfa Riaz, Ijaz Alam, Hafiz Mumtaz, Col. (R) Hashim Dogar, Taimoor Khan Bhatti, Nauman Langrial, chief secretary, IGP, principal secretary to CM and high officials welcomed the Chinese Vice President. Chinese Vice President and Punjab Chief Minister Sardar Usman Buzdar visited the Haier Ruba Economic Zone and inspected its various sections.

They were also given a briefing about the Haier Ruba Economic Zone. Talking on the occasion, Chief Minister Sardar Usman Buzdar said that the Punjab government is striving for the promotion of the industrial sector through the new industrial policy and a number of facilities have been provided to the investors in Punjab.

He said that Chinese investment in the industrial sector is praiseworthy. Chinese investors will be provided with every sort of facility in Punjab. Provincial Ministers Hashim Jawan Bakht, Mian Aslam Iqbal and others were also present on the occasion.