Source: BBC Monitoring South Asia
Publisher: The British Broadcasting Corporation
Byline: 
Copyright: (c) 2019 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation. 
Publication Date: Nov 19, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,afgh,asiaz,casiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Highlights from Pakistan's Pashto-language TV, press, websites 19 Nov 19

Snippet: THE FOLLOWING IS A BBCM SELECTION OF MAJOR NEWS ITEMS PUBLISHED IN PAKISTAN'S PASHTO-LANGUAGE TV, PRESS AND ONLINE MEDIA OUTLETS ON 19 November 2019.

Wahdat

Body: 
KP Government to invest in education of tribal districts

The Khyber Pakhtunkhwa government would spend 20bn rupees (128m dollars) on education sector in tribal districts. The government official said that the funding would ensure quality education in tribal districts. The official said that 4,500 teachers would be recruited in tribal districts, while thousands of schools would be provided with basic facilities. (front page, 200 words approx.)

Torkham border custom duties hinders trade: Afghan officials

Officials from Afghanistan have termed high duties on Torkham post, a border between Afghanistan and Pakistan, a hindrance in the promotion of trade. A delegation of Afghanistan officials met traders at Sarhad Chamber of Commerce & Industry (SCCI) in Peshawar. The delegation said that if the power of regulating custom duties was handed over to the collectors on Torkham post, then the trade would promote. The Afghan delegation offered that if the Afghan trucks were allowed to move from Peshawar to Karachi then in return the Afghanistan government would allow Pakistani trucks to access central Asian countries. (front page, 220 words approx.)

Afghan refugees' repatriation from Pakistan remain suspended

Pakistan spokesperson of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), Qaisar Afridi, has said that due to the cold weather in Afghanistan, the repatriation of Afghan refugees would remain suspended in the month of December. According to the UNHCR, there are 1.4 million Afghan refugees in Pakistan and most of them reside in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province. (front page, 200 words approx.)

[Wahdat gives good and equal coverage to both sides of the Durand Line (Pakistan-Afghan frontier), with a focus on Pashtun issues. The paper also publishes interviews with Afghan political leaders. It provides a balanced mix of anti-Taliban and pro-Taliban opinion.]

Khabroona

Movement to oust government soon says: JI chief

Chief of the Jamaat-i-Islami (JI), Sirajul haq, has said that if the opposition parties resigned from the assemblies, there would be fewer chances for the government to continue further. He added that it seems that opposition parties would not resign from legislative assemblies. While addressing a gathering in Bajaur district, he said that the government should fulfil the promises they made to the people of tribal districts. He said that soon they would start a movement to overthrow the government. (front page, 230 words approx.)

CM directs authorities to call district price control meeting

Chief Minister (CM) of the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP), Mahmood Khan, headed a meeting of food item prices review committee. Khan directed the deputy commissioners to call price control meetings in their relevant districts. He said that the administrations should make sure of relief to people. (front page, 180 words approx.)

JUI-F protests continues across the country

The protest and sit-ins of Jamiat Ulema-i-Islam (Fazl) (JUI-F) continued in the country under their "Plan-B". The workers of JUI-F blocked roads of various cities and demanded to oust Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) government. The protest of the JUI-F workers continued despite rains. (back page, 160 words approx.)

[Khabroona is owned by the Peshawar-based Subh Group, which also publishes the Urdu daily Subh. It provides good coverage to both sides of the Durand Line (the Pakistan-Afghan frontier), with a focus on Pashtun issues. It provides a balanced mix of anti-Taliban and pro-Taliban opinion.]

Hewad

Extremists resurface in different parts of KP province

Extremist elements have resurfaced in various parts of the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province. In last two months, four government officials were killed in the districts of Dir, Kohistan, Peshawar and Dera Ismail Khan respectively. In the Dir district a public prosecutor, in Kohistan District an education Officer, in Peshawar a Deputy Superintendent Police (DSP) and in Dera Ismail Khan an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) were killed. (front page, 180 words approx.)

No differences between government and Army: DG ISPR

Director General Inter Service Public Relations (DG ISPR), Major General Asif Ghafoor, has said that there were no differences among the government and army. He said that Prime Minister (PM) Imran Khan and Chief of Army Staff (COAS) Qamar Javed Bajwa regularly meet and have frequent interactions. He said such interactions are very important for the development of the country. (front page, 200 words approx.)

Judiciary should restore people confidence: PM Khan

Prime Minister (PM) Imran Khan has said that the judiciary should restore people confidence on justice. He said that there was need of a justice system in which privileged class and ordinary citizen were treated equally. He added that there was no other big crime than selling Islam for money. He said that the JUI-F brought children of religious seminaries for sit-in protest in the federal capital Islamabad. (front page, 300 words approx.)

[Hewad is Pakistan's oldest Pashto newspaper, and gives equal coverage to both sides of the Durand Line (the Pakistan-Afghanistan frontier), with a focus on Pashtuns and religion.]

Tribal News Network

God enable me to fight Mafia, says PM Khan

Prime Minister Imran Khan has said that god enabled him to fight with Mafia and he would not spare anyone who looted country resources. While addressing the inaugural ceremony of Hazara Motorway, he said that some of his cabinet member panicked due to the JUI-F sit-in; however, he assured them that situation would be under control. He added that the Hazara Motorway was part of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) projects. (front page, 180 words approx.)

Anti-polio campaign kicks-off in 11 districts of KP province

The Khyber Pakhtunkhwa government has initiated a special anti-polio vaccination campaign in 11 districts of the province. For the campaign drive, 4,800 teams are deployed in various districts. These teams would carry out the anti-polio vaccination. Earlier, on 4 November, the anti-polio campaign was suspended due to the protest of doctors' community. 64 polio cases have been so far reported in Pakistan.

JUI-F rejects allegations of deal with government

The chief of JUI-F, Maulana Fazlur Rehman, has rejected the claim of Punjab Assembly's Speaker of any deal between the JUI-F and government. Rehman said that the JUI-F sit-in has created chaos in the government and he reiterated that through country-wide protests the prime minister would resign from his post. (Front page, 230 words approx.)

[Tribal News Network (TNN) is a Peshawar-based online multimedia news agency. It provides news from Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and the erstwhile tribal areas and focusses on their issues and problems. It was established in 2014 to serve radio audiences through partner FM radio stations and has now evolved into a news portal.]

Pashtun Gazette

Afghan leaders discusses delayed election result

Afghanistan Chief Executive Abdullah Abdullah met Hezb-e Islami party leader Gulbadin Hekmatyar. Both leaders discussed the delay in the result of the recently held Afghanistan presidential election. The meeting between both leaders took place in a situation when the country is faced with a political disaster. Independent Election Commission Afghanistan has so far failed to declare the initial result of the presidential election which was held on 28 September. (front page, 250 words approx.)

[Pashtun Gazette is a bilingual news portal in Pashto and Urdu. Reportage in the two languages differs due to the different target audiences. The Pashto section of the website is mostly about Pakistan's erstwhile tribal areas, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Afghanistan, while the Urdu section is about mainstream Pakistani issues.]

Date Line (Prime Time Talk Show on AVT Khyber News at 17:00 gmt)

Discussion on political parties' credit for development work

Anchor Hassan Khan said that Prime Minister Imran Khan during the inauguration of Hazara Motorway targeted the opposition parties. He added that on Wednesday [19 November] the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) leader, Nawaz Sharif, would leave Pakistan for his medical treatment abroad. He said that despite ruling on the country, Sharif did not provide a health care system which could have provided Sharif a proper treatment.

PML-N leader Pir Sabir Shah said that the Hazara motorway project was initiated by the PML-N and it was PML-N's right to inaugurate the project. He said that during their tenure as a government, the law & order, peace, infrastructure of the country started showing good signs; however, with new government everything was on downfall.

Jamaat-i-Islami (JI) Senator [member of the upper house of the parliament], Mushtaq Ahmad Khan, said that the price of food items is on rise in the country and it was due to failure of the government. He said that the growth rate of Pakistan has been declining, while debts on the country have increased. He added that the government has no other option but to privatise the institution. He stated that the citizens of Pakistan were not allowed to enter Waziristan, while Indians were allowed to enter the country without passport.

Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) Senator Fida Muhammad Khan said that we should keep the county interest before our self-interests. He stated that all the political parties need to sit together and work on issues faced by the county. He said that Kartarpur corridor [Sikh pilgrimage corridor between India and Pakistan] was built to portray a soft image of the country. He said that they are working on the development of less developed areas of the country, including Waziristan.

[AVT Khyber News is Pakistan's first Pashto-language satellite news channel and was launched in 2007. The Islamabad-based channel is owned by the AVT group, which first launched AVT Khyber (an entertainment channel) in 2004. AVT says it is "the voice of Pashtuns around the world". It has a network of reporters in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province and in Afghanistan.]

Mashriq Leads (Prime Time Talk Show on Mashriq TV at 14:00 gmt)

Hazara Motorway inaugurated

Anchor Salman Ali Shah said that Prime Minister Imran Khan has inaugurated Hazara Motorway, which would reduce travel time from 8 to 3 hours. He said that this motorway would also pave way for trade with China. Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) criticised the government for inaugurating their initiated project. The length of the expressway is 180 kilometre.

Ikhtyar Wali of PML-N said that the project was initiated by the former prime minister Nawaz Sharif. He added that PM Khan was criticising Sharif while inaugurating the project initiated by Sharif. He said that people raised slogan against Imran Khan prior to the inaugural ceremony.

The provincial assembly speaker of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Mushtaq Ahmad Ghani, said that Hazara district always remain neglected and with this road there would be some ease for the people. He said that the road was built by China for its own good.

Rainy season, preparedness measures for relief activities

Anchor Salman Ali Shah said that due to rain three people were killed in the Kohistan district. He said there were chances of land slide in different parts of the province in coming days. Provincial Disastrous Management Authority (PDMA) said they provide timely relief to affected areas.

Local Journalist from the Chitral district, Nazir Hussain, said that due to recent rains there were nominal damages in the district and the roads were clear for traffic.

The spokesperson of PDMA, Anwar Shehzad, said that the contingency plans were ready to deal with present to deal with any case of natural disaster. He added that government has the resources for relief activities.

Women in Charsadda protest over body search by men police

Anchor Salman Ali Shah said that during the recruitment test for the primary school teachers in various areas of the province viz Charsadda district, a male security guard was involved in body search of female candidates.

Local Journalist Mehbob Ali said that a male security guard searched female candidates. He said that people protested against the test conducting agency.

[Mashriq TV is a Pashto-language channel launched in August 2016 and is a partner station of the BBC. It is owned by the Mashriq group of newspapers which also publishes English-language daily The Statement. The channel is observed to carry balanced reporting with no overt leanings towards any political party or group.]

Source: BBC Monitoring in Pashto 1030 gmt 19 Nov 19