Source: Investment Weekly News
Publisher: NewsRX, LLC
Byline: 
Copyright: © Copyright 2019 Investment Weekly News via VerticalNews.com 
Publication Date: Dec 05, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,chinaz,china,qingd,apacz,asiaz,bric,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,shand,

Title: Sustainability Research; Reports from Qingdao Agricultural University Highlight Recent Research in Sustainability Research (Should Listed Banks Be Concerned with Intellectual Capital in Emerging Asian Markets? A Comparison between China and Pakistan)

Snippet: 2019 DEC 14 (VerticalNews) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at Investment Weekly News -- A new study on sustainability research is now available. According to news originating from Qingdao, People's Republic of China, by VerticalNews editors, the research stated, "The purpose of this study is to determine and compare the relationship between intellectual capital (IC) and banks' performance in China and Pakistan."

Body: 
The news journalists obtained a quote from the research from Qingdao Agricultural University: "The data are acquired from listed banks in these two countries during 2010-2018. The Value Added Intellectual Coefficient (VAIC ) method is applied as a measure of IC. The results show that capital employed efficiency (CEE) makes the highest contribution to bank performance in both countries. In addition, the profitability of listed Chinese banks is driven by structural capital efficiency (SCE), while human capital efficiency (HCE) positively affects bank profitability and productivity in Pakistan. In addition, we find that the lagged effect of IC has a positive impact on future bank profitability."

According to the news reporters, the research concluded: "This study supports greater investment in IC in order to further improve bank performance in emerging Asian markets."

For more information on this research see: Should Listed Banks Be Concerned with Intellectual Capital in Emerging Asian Markets? A Comparison between China and Pakistan. Sustainability, 2019,11(23):6582. (Sustainability - http://www.mdpi.com/journal/sustainability). The publisher for Sustainability is MDPI AG.

A free version of this journal article is available at https://doi.org/10.3390/su11236582.

Our news editors report that additional information may be obtained by contacting Jian Xu, School of Management, Qingdao Agricultural University, Qingdao 266109, People's Republic of China. Additional authors for this research include Muhammad Haris, Hongxing Yao.

Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world. Copyright 2019, NewsRx LLC