Source: BBC Monitoring South Asia
Publisher: The British Broadcasting Corporation
Byline: 
Copyright: (c) 2019 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation. 
Publication Date: Nov 21, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,afgh,asiaz,casiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Highlights from Pakistan's Pashto-language TV, press, websites 21 Nov 19

Snippet: THE FOLLOWING IS A BBCM SELECTION OF MAJOR NEWS ITEMS PUBLISHED IN PAKISTAN'S PASHTO-LANGUAGE TV, PRESS AND ONLINE MEDIA OUTLETS ON 21 November 2019.

Wahdat

Body: 
Pakistan to facilitate to Afghanistan transit trade: PM Khan

Prime Minister (PM) Imran Khan has chaired a meeting on Afghanistan transit trade in the federal capital Islamabad. While addressing the meeting, PM Khan said keeping in view the socioeconomic development of Afghanistan, Pakistan has determined to provide facilities to landlocked Afghanistan. He directed the trade ministry to submit a complete strategy within three days in this regard. (front page, 300 words approx.)

Children lacks basic facilities due to poverty, says PPP chairman

The chairman of Pakistan People's Party (PPP), Bilawal Bhutto Zardari, has said due to injustice, inequality and poverty, children in Pakistan lacked basic facilities. On the world children's day, Bilawal Bhutto Zardari said we should treat children kindly and provide them with all the basic facilities. (back page, 50 words approx.)

Government working on alternative energy: Energy Minister

The federal Minister of Energy, Omar Ayub, said the government has started working on alternative ways to produce cheap power for consumers. He added in its first year with the government initiatives, the government has saved 229bn rupees (1.46bn dollars). He said the policy draft for the alternative energy has been completed and in future the price of electricity will further reduce. (front page, 220 words approx.)

[Wahdat gives good and equal coverage to both sides of the Durand Line (Pakistan-Afghan frontier), with a focus on Pashtun issues. The paper also publishes interviews with Afghan political leaders. It provides a balanced mix of anti-Taliban and pro-Taliban opinion.]

Khabroona

JUI-F led opposition protest concluded

The opposition parties' Rehbar (steering) Committee has announced end of the Jamiat Ulema-i-Islam(Fazl) (JUI-F) led protest march throughout the country. The head of rehbar committee Akram Khan Durrani, while talking to media announced end of the protest. He asked JUI-F workers to clear up the roads. The committee has also decided to call on all parties' conference, the date of which would be announced soon. (front page, 200 words approx.)

Awareness walk for child protection in KP province

Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP) government celebrated the world children's day with an awareness walk from the chief minister's house to the governor's house. The KP Information Minister, Shaukat Yousafzai, said the government has taken special steps for protection of orphaned children. He said the government was also taking steps against child abuse and promoting right to school. (front page, 200 words approx.)

CPEC projects to be completed soon: Foreign Minister

While addressing a conference in Islamabad, the foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi has said Pakistan would complete all the China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) projects in due time. He appreciated the role of Chinese government in Belt and Road Initiative (BRI - infrastructure development project) and said it would promote regional development. (back page, 220 words approx.)

[Khabroona is owned by the Peshawar-based Subh Group, which also publishes the Urdu daily Subh. It provides good coverage to both sides of the Durand Line (the Pakistan-Afghan frontier), with a focus on Pashtun issues. It provides a balanced mix of anti-Taliban and pro-Taliban opinion.]

Hewad

Five injured due to gas cylinder blast in Peshawar city

Five people got injured from an explosion of a gas cylinder in the Hazara Khawani area of Peshawar city. The injured were shifted to the city hospital on Kohat road. According to rescue 1122 service, the injured were provided with first aid facilities on the spot and were later shifted to hospital. Their condition is reported to be out of danger. (front page, 180 words approx.)

Pakistan become vice president of Global Climate Change fund

Adviser to the Prime Minister on Climate Change, Malik Amin, said Pakistan has become the vice president of Global Climate Change Fund. He added the step was the acknowledgment of Pakistan's role in combating climate change. He said to deal with glacial outburst; we need further research in the area. (front page, 200 words approx.)

Japan to help Pakistan in tree plantation drive project

According to Clean and Green Pakistan project, Japan ambassador to Pakistan and Malik Amin has planted tree saplings in the Japan embassy situated in Islamabad. He said Japan would help Pakistan in plantation of 10 billion trees and would also provide environment friendly electric cars. (back page, 200 words approx.)

[Hewad is Pakistan's oldest Pashto newspaper, and gives equal coverage to both sides of the Durand Line (the Pakistan-Afghanistan frontier), with a focus on Pashtuns and religion.]

Tribal News Network

Opposition parties demands hearing of PTI foreign funding case

The rehbar (steering) committee of the opposition parties has demanded the hearing of Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) foreign funding case on daily basis. The PTI foreign funding case is under trial in the Islamabad High Court. The opposition parties protested in front of the Election Commission of Pakistan (ECP). The head of steering committee, Akram Khan Durrani, said despite spending five years on the investigation, the case has not been completed. (front page, 250 words approx.)

CTD official killed from firing in Bannu district

Counter Terrorism Department (CTD) official was shot dead by unknown assailants in the Bannu district of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province. According to police, the CTD personnel was on way to his office when unknown assailants opened fire on him. He was shifted in injured condition to the hospital where he succumbed to his injuries. Police said they have started investigation of the incident. (front page, 180 words approx.)

Ex-PM Sharif reaches London for medical treatment

The former prime minister, leader of Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) Nawaz Sharif has reached to London. He was welcomed by his party workers. Sharif reached to London via an air ambulance from Lahore. Sharif's son, Hussain Nawaz, said their first priority was the medical treatment of his father. (front page, 160 words approx.)

[Tribal News Network (TNN) is a Peshawar-based online multimedia news agency. It provides news from Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and the erstwhile tribal areas and focusses on their issues and problems. It was established in 2014 to serve radio audiences through partner FM radio stations and has now evolved into a news portal.]

Pashtun Gazette

Pakistan Chief Justice responds to PM Khan

Chief Justice of Pakistan Justice Asif Saeed Khosa has responded to the remarks of PM Khan regarding judiciary. He said Prime Minister Imran Khan was our elected representative. He said the permission given to Nawaz Sharif for medical treatment abroad was given by the government itself and the Lahore High Court decision was just on the modalities. (front page, 300 words approx.)

[Pashtun Gazette is a bilingual news portal in Pashto and Urdu. Reportage in the two languages differs due to the different target audiences. The Pashto section of the website is mostly about Pakistan's erstwhile tribal areas, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Afghanistan, while the Urdu section is about mainstream Pakistani issues.]

Date Line (Prime Time Talk Show on AVT Khyber News at 17:00 gmt)

Discussion on changing political scenario of Pakistan

Anchor Hassan Khan said Pakistan Chief Justice Asif Saeed Khosa criticised PM Khan for his remarks on judiciary and asked him to exercise restrain while commenting on judiciary. He said it was strange that both were in front of each other.

The Awami National Party (ANP) President Asfandyar Wali Khan said the country was being run by incapable people, who overburdened it with debts. He said PM Khan should not blame someone else for his acts. He added Afghanistan always blamed Pakistan for training extremists and Imran Khan admitted it in the United Nations that we had trained them.

The chief of Jamaat-i-Islami(JI) Sirajul Haq said the treatment of rich and poor in the country was different, which includes provision of justice to education and sanitation. He added all slogans of the government for change were just false statements.

The Jamiat Ulema-i-Islam(Fazl) (JUI-F) Senator [member of upper house of the parliament] Maulana Atta Ur Rehman said the signs showed that there was something which was troubling government. He said under the Plan B of their protest movement, people were facing problems, due to which the JUI-F decided to end their protest.

The chairman of Qaumi Watan Party Aftab Ahmad Sherpao said the government has become weak and it showed that some change was coming ahead.

The PML-N leader Amir Maqam said the decisions which were unsuitable for Imran Khan, became unfair decisions.

The leader of Pakistan People's Party (PPP) Chaudhry Manzor said the chairman of National Accountability Bureau (NAB - Pakistan's top anti-corruption body) has accepted that some people were spared before from accountability.

[AVT Khyber News is Pakistan's first Pashto-language satellite news channel and was launched in 2007. The Islamabad-based channel is owned by the AVT group, which first launched AVT Khyber (an entertainment channel) in 2004. AVT says it is "the voice of Pashtuns around the world". It has a network of reporters in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province and in Afghanistan.]

Mashriq Leads (Prime Time Talk Show on Mashriq TV at 14:00 gmt)

Discussion on lack of special hospitals for children in KP

Anchor Salman Ali Shah said World Children's Day was celebrated throughout the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province. He added the KP Institute of Child Health has not been completed so far, while other province has established such institutes.

Member Provincial Assembly [member of the provincial parliament] Zahir Shah said the establishment of the institute was very important. He said the previous governments were responsible for the negligence.

Professor Dr Afzal Khattak said the KP lacks special hospital for the children. He added the work on the hospital was underway and they hoped it would be complete soon. He said with the establishment of this institute, children would not be referred to other provinces and there treatment would be possible in KP province. Similarly, doctors would get training in this institute.

Price tomatoes on rise in Peshawar city

The district administration has taken notice of high tomatoes price in Peshawar and it has auctioned three trucks of tomatoes on government rates. Journalist Shabir Shah said this showed some people were manipulating the market. He said despite the district operations, there was no reduction in the price of tomatoes in the market. He said it was the failure of district administration to regulate prices.

[Mashriq TV is a Pashto-language channel launched in August 2016 and is a partner station of the BBC. It is owned by the Mashriq group of newspapers which also publishes English-language daily The Statement. The channel is observed to carry balanced reporting with no overt leanings towards any political party or group.]

Source: BBC Monitoring in Pashto 1030 gmt 21 Nov 19