Source: Frontier Star
Publisher: Frontier Star Publisher
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 Asianet-Pakistan 
Publication Date: Nov 23, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: First SEZ will be inaugurated next year: Asad Umar

Snippet: Federal Minister for Planning, Development, Reforms and Special Initiatives Asad Umar on Saturday heralded China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) as a game-changer by both Pakistan and China, adding that first Special Economic Zone of the flagship project will be inaugurated next year.

He said CPEC is going to take a growing toll on the Pakistan Economy, Especially when the bulk of paymest start to come due in the next four to six years.

Body: 
The planning and development minister said under the CPEC project China gave loans to Pakistan on very low interest rate.

He said construction of Special Economic Zones will create job opportunities. Asad Umar said any country in the world, including US and KSA, Pakistan will welcome their investiment and will ensure facilitation.

The planning and development minister said Pakistan has already beared damages in the strategic competion of foreign powers and it doesn’t want part of any such competition.He made it clear that any conspricy against the CPEC project would be dumped to failure.

He said this while talking to media persons on Saturday in Karachi.

Asad Umar said increase in dollar rate caused increase in inflation and damaged the country economy. The country was in a dangerous position a year before when there was no increase in export but in import.

When you cannot increase exports, your trust deficit increased aimed financial crisis, Umar said.

He said the interest rate of long term loans barrowed from China is 2.34 percent, adding that the loans will be returned in the next 20 years.

Responding the US preception that the country production will be limited with the loans barrowed from China, the planning and development minister said the US analysis is built on false information.

He said the first economic zone will be inaugurated next year.