Source: Frontier Star
Publisher: Frontier Star Publisher
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 Asianet-Pakistan 
Publication Date: Nov 25, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,laho,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Says Maulana Fazl returned from Islamabad without anything

Snippet: Railway Minister Sheikh Rasheed Ahmed has said that he had predicted six months earlier that Nawaz Sharif and Shehbaz Sharif will leave the country.

While talking to media in Lahore on Monday, he said that PML-N and media gave the impression as if former premier is on death-bed.

Body: 
'I am glad they (Nawaz and Shahbaz Sharif) are gone. They had to go and I knew that. You (media) also gave the impression as if he would die the next day if not sent abroad. Dr Adnan, former premier's personal physician, should also be investigated as he was posting regarding Nawaz Sharif's platelets on daily basis,' he said.

The railway minister further said that Maryam Nawaz will stay in Lahore. He added that if there is a corrupt person in government he should be punished twice.

'Chairman NAB said the right thing that there should be collective accountability. Imran Khan did not give NRO to anyone and his biggest credit is that he is neat and clean,' he said.

Responding to a question, he said that speaker Punjab Pevez Elahi is part of system. 'Imran Khan called him so I don't want to comment any further on that.'

The railway minister said that election will be held on time and Imran Khan led government will complete its tenure. Sheikh Rasheed said that the government of Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) will complete its five-year tenure as there is no chance of elections before that.

The minister said that Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam-Fazl (JUI-F) Chief Maulana Fazlur Rehman returned from Islamabad without anything.

PM Imran Khan has not given National Reconciliation Ordinance (NRO) to anyone but the leaders of Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) are offering money on former president Asif Ali Zardari matter, he claimed.

Sheikh Rasheed said that Pakistan will benefit from China's expertise in Railways Sector. He said that Main Line One project is the jugular vein of China Pakistan Economic Corridor project. The Railways Minister said that investigations should be conducted into foreign funding case against all political parties.