Source: Pakistan Today
Publisher: Nawa Media (Pvt.) Limited
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Nawa Media (PVT.) Limited. 
Publication Date: Jan 03, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,easiaz,chinaz,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: West does not understand the depth of Sino-Pak ties: report

Snippet: Asianet Pakistan Private Limited

BEIJING: TheWestern World does not comprehend the depth and warmth of Sino-Pak decades' old relationship that is based on a very strong foundation, says an opinion-based report published in China Daily on Friday. The people of the two countries are all-weather, time-tested and all-dimension friends in the purest sense.

Body: 
They have always stood with each other during all the difficult moments in the past and will remain united together in the future. According to the report, China and Pakistan are on the same page on issues, from domestic and regional to international.

They protect each other's interests and support each other on all fronts. More precisely, they complement each other.

China is helping Pakistan in all sectors, from economy and agriculture to industry and education. These relations cover a very wide and comprehensive spectrum.

China launched the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) with the objective of sharing the fruits of Chinese development with other countries, including its friendly neighbours. The China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) is a flagship project under the BRI.

Around 11 projects under CPEC have been completed and another 11 are in the advanced stages of execution. The finished projects serve as oxygen to the ailing economy of Pakistan, with some even generating revenue.

While the first phase of CPEC has focused on power and infrastructure, the second phase, which will soon be launched, involves industrialization. Special economic zones will accommodate Chinese industries and contribute to the rapid development of the industrial sector of Pakistan.

Industrialization will generate jobs for Pakistani youth and enhance national productivity. It will also meet domestic market demand, which can reduce Pakistan's import bill, and create the potential for more exports, which can enhance the country's badly needed foreign exchange.

China is helping Pakistan to overcome the economic crisis. This assistance is part of our traditions and is also in line with the saying, A friend in need is a friend indeed".

But today, the world has become so materialistic that nations only look after their own interests. In particular, Western values are generally based only on gains, while Eastern cultures are totally different and value centuries-old traditions.

China and Pakistan are Eastern countries possessing similar cultural values. In our cultures, a friend is always a friend, even though he may be in trouble.

China reaffirmed that it will continue to provide all-around support to Pakistan for its socio-economic development. Commenting on Wednesday's media report regarding the $2 billion in aid to Pakistan, the spokesman of the Foreign Ministry Lu Kang said that China and Pakistan are all-weather strategic partners.

China has been and will continue to provide support and assistance to Pakistan's economic and social development through assistance, trade, investment and all-around pragmatic cooperation. The two sides have actually maintained close communication on relevant cooperation," he added.