Source: The Nation
Publisher: News Bites Pty Ltd
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 Asianet-Pakistan 
Publication Date: Nov 26, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,chinaz,pakis,apacz,asiaz,bric,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: China next superpower despite west's propaganda

Snippet: China is unquestionably the world's next superpower and its growth rate will soon surpass USA's annual growth rate while the Western media would still be busy propagating fake and negative news about China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) and Xinjiang to manipulate public opinion.

These remarks were made by Mr Chen Xiang aka Shaheen, Director China Radio International Confucius Class room during a special lecture organised by Pakistan Institute of China Studies (PICS), Sargodha University here on Tuesday.

Body: 
A large number of faculty members and students attended the lecture while UoS Vice Chancellor Dr Ishtiaq Ahmad and Director PICS Dr Fazalur Rahman were also present on the occasion.

Shedding light on the history of China, the guest speaker Mr Chen Xiang said that China is one of the oldest civilizations of the world with a continuous history of more than 5,000 years. The fact that China has never invaded any country proves that China is a peace-loving country and it has no intentions of expanding its territory, he added.

Mr Chen Xiang said that Pakistan-China friendship is higher than mountains and deeper than the ocean and both countries can potentially help each other in achieving economic goals. 'Agriculture-based market in China is widely open for Pakistan as it is very difficult for China to feed 22 per cent of the world's population with only seven percent of the planet's arable land,' he maintained. Mr Chen Xiang, who has been living in Pakistan for more than a decade, threw light on the negative role of Western media which has long been spreading fabricated news to malign China. 'China takes no country as its rival including the United States however it seems that America is not happy with the rapid growth of China.'

According to Mr Chen Xiang, CPEC has linked Pakistan's growth with China. The mega project would help curb the menace of poverty, not only from Pakistan but also from the entire region, he said, adding that Pakistan will too grow and develop with the growth of China.

Addressing on the occasion, the Vice Chancellor Dr Ishtiaq Ahmad said that Pakistan should follow the footprints of China which has lifted 850 million people out of poverty and corruption.

In his view, Pakistan should further strengthen its economic ties with China as it will be the largest economy of the world in coming years. He informed the participants that Sargodha University has signed many MoUs with Chinese institutes in the field of agriculture that would help uplifting the agriculture in Sargodha region. Dr Fazalur Rahman said in his address that the Confucius Institute would soon be established at the University of Sargodha to promote Chinese language and culture while two Chinese language teachers have already joined the University to start Chinese language course.