Source: The Frontier Post
Publisher: The Frontier Post
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. The Frontier Post 
Publication Date: Nov 23, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,usa,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,namz,sasiaz,

Title: US tirade against CPEC

Snippet: US Deputy Secretary of State for South Asia and Central Asia Ms. Alice Wells has cautioned the present government of Pakistan about sustainability and repayment risks of $62 billion Chinese debt to be acquired for CPEC related projects. She questioned the quid-pro-quo these projects and described it benefiting China alone. In her assessment of CPEC debts, Ms. Wells that non-concessionary loans will take a high toll on the troubled economy of Pakistan and deferred payments make worse the debt servicing problem, hindering the process of economic development and impacting the pro-poor people reforms agenda of Prime Minster Imran Khan.

Body: 
The stance of the US has been critical on CPEC from the very outset. However, Alice Wells cost benefit analysis has invited a prompt response from the Ambassador of China in Islamabad, Yao Jing' Speaking at the 5th CPEC Media Forum, the Chinese envoy rebutted the US version of likely debt trap and defended Sino-Pak economic cooperation being mutually beneficial, without giving a comparative data of accruable interest on Chinese loans with ones provided by the multilateral donor agencies to Pakistan. He merely said if Pakistan could not pay CPEC loans in time China will not press for it. He did not tell anything about the cost of rescheduling of refinancing of loans. Similarly, he was not unequivocal in repudiating the US top diplomat claim that CPEC related projects will not help much Pakistan in combating the acute problem of unemployment as bulk of the labor force and material will come from China whereas the US not only bring capital but gives employment to the local work force by their capacity building. Likewise, he did not clarify the tariff issue of Chinese thermal power plants. The Chinese Ambassador told that 75000 Pakistanis have given jobs in the ongoing development projects and employment opportunities for 2.3 million local workers shall be created within the next 10 years. Last year US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo had warned the International Monetary Fund to take care against the use of its loans for the payment of Chinese debt. It seems worthwhile to place the Nitti Gritty of CPEC and its debts before the parliament to allay the emanating misgivings.