Source: BBC Monitoring South Asia
Publisher: The British Broadcasting Corporation
Byline: 
Copyright: (c) 2019 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation. 
Publication Date: Sep 10, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Pakistan's Dunya TV show on growing foreign investments

Snippet: The following is a summary of talk show "Dunya Kamran Khan ke saath" (World with Kamran Khan) hosted by senior journalist and TV host Kamran Khan, on moderate Dunya News TV in Urdu at 1630 gmt on 9 September. The programme provides analysis and views of experts and politicians on important news of the day.

Special Economic Zone in Faisalabad

Body: 
Anchor Masood Raza said Special Economic Zone in Faisalabad located on the eastern route of CPEC (China Pakistan Economic Corridor) has become a center of attention of local and foreign investors and industrialists. He showed a video report on the M3 Economic Zone. The reporter said that Faisalabad has a leading position in the industrialization phase of CPEC. He said "one window facility" has been set up for investors. President Faisalabad Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Syed Zia Alamdar, said large scale investment was coming to this zone. He added that the government should facilitate the building of additional power grid station and special gas pipelines for the zone.

Raza said not only local investors but foreign investors are investing in industrial projects here. Mian Kashif Ashfaq, chairman of Faisalabad Industrial Estate Development and Management Company (FEDMIC), said a large number of Chinese investors were coming to this industrial zone. He said the investment is coming in chemical and ceramics industry. He said besides the Chinese, Korean and Turkish investors have also shown great interest in investment here. He said that "import substitution is our main focus".

Ashfaq said that the "Chinese industrialists were interested in coming to Pakistan because labour cost has increased in China". He also said that "the recent US-China trade conflict is also a factor" due to which Chinese interest in investment here was growing.

Pressure on PPP government in Sindh

Raza hosted the show in the absence of the regular host Kamran Khan. Raza said the threats to Pakistan People's Party (PPP) government in Sindh have subsided but not vanished. He said a forward block (breakaway faction) in the party is in the making. He said the PPP leaders are giving statement that there was no dissent in the party and showed clips of PPP leaders defending the party and rejecting reports of cracks in the party. Raza said a no-confidence move against Chief Minister Murad Ali Shah was likely by December or January.

Ban on plastic bags

Raza reported that plastic bags have been banned in Islamabad and the Sindh government has also announced a ban. He reported that approximately 55 billion plastic bags are used in Pakistan every year. About the introduction of biodegradable plastic bags in Islamabad, Raza said that experts say that the new bags might be even more harmful. Raza said a large number of people who were engaged in the plastic bag manufacturing industry would lose jobs after the ban. He said the government should have given some alternative to these businesses.

Peshawar bus project

Raza said the Bus Rapid Transport (BRT) project in Peshawar remains incomplete after a delay of several months and the government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa seems totally oblivious when the project would be completed. Raza noted that the construction work on BRT was causing serious problems for the public and the traders on the sides of the track. He also mentioned that the allegations of corruption in the project were also being levelled and the cost of the project has increased due to the delay. Speaking on the show, Ajmal Khan Wazir of Pakistan Tehreek-e Insaf (PTI) said there was no corruption involved in this project and that the project would be completed "within the current year". He said that "we would not compromise on the quality of the project".

Transport in Karachi

Raza said that using transport in Karachi, the biggest city and economic hub of Pakistan was "no less than a nightmare". He said the PPP government of Sindh is not bringing new buses for the city. Raza showed clips of various ministers of Sindh government claiming that new buses would be inducted in transport fleet of Karachi. Raza showed visuals of people travelling on roofs or hanging outside the buses. He contacted Awais Qadir Shah, minister for transport in Sindh government for comments. The minister said the government had a shortage of funds. He also said that the government's agreement with Daewoo Bus Company was delayed due to the confusion created by the fluctuation in the dollar exchange rate.

Source: Dunya News TV in Urdu 1630 gmt 9 Sep 19