Source: National Herald Tribune
Publisher: National Herald Tribune
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. National Herald Tribune. 
Publication Date: May 27, 2019

Region Codes: ,turkm,easiaz,pakis,apacz,asiaz,casiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,ussrz,

Title: Turkmenistan hosts International Gas Congress

Snippet: Turkmenistan International Gas Congress (TGC 2019) has started work in Avaza National tourist zone on May 21, 2019. Big specialized forum, which is to give new impulse to international cooperation in energy sphere, was organized by the State Concern Trkmengaz. For many years, the Congress serves as a platform for discussion of the conditions and perspectives of development of the world gas industry. High status and prestige of this major event is fully indicated by current anniversary forum of the TGC 2019, which has brought together around 450 delegates from 30 countries including from Afghanistan, China, European Union, India, Japan, Pakistan, the Republic of Korea, Turkey, UAE, USA, CIS and other countries. It includes top managers of big petroleum, service and consulting companies, representatives of profile ministries and departments, competent international organizations and financial structures, diplomatic and scientific circles as well as mass media.

Body: 
The opening ceremony of the forum took place in fashionable Berkarar Hotel in the morning. Gas - Fuel of Future was the theme of plenary session, under which Embassy of Turkmenistan in the Islamic Republic of Pakistan representatives of structural divisions of fuel and energy complex of Turkmenistan introduced potential partners with key directions of energy strategy and perspective plans of development of gas industry of the country.

As is known, Turkmenistan holds the fourth position in the world by gas reserves, which are estimated by more than 50 trillion cubic meters. According to the data, which are published annually in the OPEC statistic reports; Turkmenistan is on the third place by gas production volumes in Europe and CIS.

Having significant energy potential, Turkmenistan implements large-scale projects for establishment of multidimensional export infrastructure of its energy carriers. This is visually indicated by transnational gas line Turkmenistan - China, which embodied the implementation of the idea of restoration of the Silk Route that used to connect the peoples of Europe and Asia for thousands of years.

Construction of Turkmenistan - Afghanistan Pakistan - India gas line (TAPI) is another strategic important initiative. President GurbangulyBerdimuhamedov highlights that new energy route, which will provide longterm supply of natural gas to the largest countries of Southeast Asia will give strong impulse to economic development of the region, will support the solution of social and humanitarian issues and the strengthening of peace and stability.

The participants of the session were presented with the information on the course of industrial development of the biggest land super gigantic gas deposit Galkynysh, which territory is more than 4,000 square kilometers.

According to the data received from geological surveys including by 2-D and 3-D seismic, average production capacity of carbonate column is more than 500 meters with 84.5 percent ratio of gas saturation. At present moment, operation fund of the field has more than 40 wells, which debit is two million cubic meters of gas per day in average. Complex of facilities for production of 30 billion cubic meters of ale gas per year has been commissioned at the field. Similar complexes with the same production capacity, which will feed the TAPI gas line, are under construction.

In addition, new trends in the world gas industry and various aspects of development of sustainable energy sphere in Asia have been discussed at the plenary session. Regional Director of British Gaffney, Cline and Associates Petroleum Company John Gaffney and the UN Permanent Coordinator in Turkmenistan Elena Panova made reports on this subject. According to the Forecast of Development of the World Economy until 2040 from British Petroleum Corporation (BP World energy Outlook, 2019), the world demand on natural gas will grow steadily.

Power energy, construction, transport, petrochemical industry and other industrial spheres will be drive engines of this growth. Addressing the participants of the Congress, the UN Permanent Coordinator in Turkmenistan highlighted that the United Nations considers such major meetings as an opportunity to appeal to national world partners and to remind that the development can be sustainable only in combination with the ecology.

In particular, it is planned to accomplish the construction of Turkmen section of energy line. According to completed information, the length of 33 billion cubic meters per year gas line will be 1,840 kilometers including 205 kilometers on the territory of Turkmenistan. At present time, preparation to construction of the pipeline in Afghanistan and Pakistan is carried out.

In addition, technical aspects of construction of export gas line in Caspian Sea have been discussed during the session.

Nowadays, when everything is clear with the legal status of Caspian Sea, this subject became actual again. At present time, Turkmenistan reviews the capability of gas supplies in western directions to Europe.

At the same time, there are technical capabilities of gas export to Iran. Supplies of gas to Russia by Central Asia Centre pipeline according to the short-term contract with Gazprom have been resumed. Middle-term contract for five years is under negotiation at present time. In addition, the Ministry of Textile Industry of Turkmenistan and Korean Institute of Industrial Technologies will study the capability of production of textile synthetic fibre from the polymers produced by the plant in Kiyanly. Therefore, full chain from production and processing of raw material to making and sale of commodities with high added value will be made in gas industry.

At present time, synthetic gasoline production plant is under completion in Kiyanly. Provided with latest equipment, the facility will process 1,782,000,000 cubic meters of natural gas and produce 600,000 tons of Euro 5 standard A92 gasoline as well as diesel fuel and liquefied gas per year. It is worth mentioning that reports of representatives of number of the world companies such as Shell Global Solution International B.V., Hyundai Engineering, HaldorTopsoe, Exxon Mobil Corporation and other have been presented on the first day of work of the Congress.

The participants of the forum had an opportunity to visit polymeric plant in Kiyanly, production facilities of PETRONAS Carigali (Turkmenistan) and Turkmenbashy International Port.