Source: Construction Global
Publisher: HT Digital Streams Limited
Byline: Daniel Brightmore 
Copyright: Copyright 2019 BizClik Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
Publication Date: Sep 23, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: China's CSCEC completes 392km motorway in Pakistan

Snippet: U.S., Sept. 24 -- China State Construction Engineering Corporation (CSCEC) has finished work on the 392km Sukkur-Multan motorway in Pakistan.

A part of the Peshawar to Karachi motorway project, the highway is the largest infrastructure project under the multi-billion-dollar China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) initiative.

Body: 
The project was completed within a record period of 36 months, around two weeks ahead of schedule in extremely hot weather in central Pakistan. Local employees numbering 28,900 took part in construction, 90% of CSCEC's contractors were Pakistanis.

The road, which snakes through the heart of Multan to Sukkur will connect to the country's business hub Karachi, offering business opportunities for the country's central area by enabling local farmers to send commodities within the country and to the outside world. The newly constructed road will reduce journey times from Multan to Sukkur by almost half.

Ammar Yasir Magsi, manager of project coordination at the Multan-Sukkur project, told Chinese news agency Xinhua that working on the project was a dream job for Pakistanis where they were not only paid well, but also given exposure to the best technologies in the world.

"When an engineer or a worker has the name of CSCEC as work experience at his resume, it will contribute a lot for his future jobs. Many people who were living in far flung areas of Multan did not have any work opportunity except farming, but now after working at the renowned motorway project, the door of opportunities has been opened for them," Magsi said.

Active in over 100 countries across the globe, CSCE covers investment and development, construction engineering (both housing and infrastructure) as well as survey and design services incorporating green approaches, energy conservation and environmental protection. Across China it is responsible for more than 90% of skyscrapers above 300m, 75% of major airports and half of the country's nuclear power plants.

Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from Construction Digital.