Source: BBC Monitoring South Asia
Publisher: The British Broadcasting Corporation
Byline: 
Copyright: (c) 2019 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation. 
Publication Date: Jun 18, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Pakistan committed to fast-track progress on CPEC - minister

Snippet: Text of report in English by website of moderate Pakistani newspaper Daily Times on 18 June

Minister for Planning, Development and Reform Makhdoom Khusro Bakhtyar and Ambassador of China Yao Jing during a meeting here on Monday [17 June] agreed to expedite the work on Eastern Corridor from Sukkur to Hyderabad on BOT (Build, Operate, and Transfer) basis for its early completion.

Body: 
The two dignitaries expressed satisfaction over the pace of projects under China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) framework.

The minister said the incumbent government is committed to fast-track the progress on this flagship project between Pakistan and China. He appreciated the Chinese leadership and government for expanding the scope of CPEC by including socio-economic and agriculture sector development under the platform. The minister noted that signing of framework agreement on agriculture cooperation is a major milestone, adding that Pakistan will welcome Chinese agriculture companies to explore investment opportunities for initiation of joint ventures.

The minister informed the Chinese ambassador that less-developed areas including the merged districts of KP and Balochistan have been accorded priority in the next year's development budget. He said that Gwadar Smart Port City Master Plan will be finalised soon which will chalk out the way forward for development of the coastal city.

Various projects under CPEC framework including 300 MW coal-based power plant in Gwadar and Kohala hydro power station also came under discussion during the meeting.

Source: Daily Times website, Lahore, in English 18 Jun 19