Source: Pakistan Observer
Publisher: Pakistan Observer
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Observer 
Publication Date: Oct 10, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,pakis,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: China for expanding CPEC

Snippet: UNDOUBTEDLY, China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) project has proved to be the most successful component of Belt and Road Initiative envisioned by the visionary Chinese President Xi Jinping, and credit for this definitely goes to the leadership of both the countries who have shown the commitment to the project having the potential to change the entire economic landscape of this region.

During talks with Prime Minister Imran Khan, the Chinese leadership expressed willingness to further expand the corridor project.

Body: 
Given the confidence and trust level that exists between the two neighbouring countries, indeed there is great scope of further expanding the CPEC to the areas which have not been touched upon yet and we are confident that this visit of PM Imran Khan will prove to be instrumental in trigger more Chinese investment in diverse sectors. The first phase of the project primarily focused on the road infrastructure and the establishment of power plants. This phase has almost reached its fruition, apart from a few road infrastructure projects that need to be completed on fast track basis. The second phase in fact is the most critical as it envisages promotion of industrial and socio economic development in Pakistan with the operationalization of special economic zones. During talks with the Chinese leadership,

Prime Minister Imran Khan expressed the commitment to give special emphasis to the SEZs and as the CPEC Authority has been established, we are confident that pace on these industrial clusters will be expedited which will take the country towards boosting the industrial and manufacturing growth, and generate immense job opportunities for our youth. One important project that is facing prolonged delay is the upgradation of main rail line from Peshawar and Karachi. As the JCC is meeting next month in Islamabad, all the modalities should be worked out and hurdles be removed in the execution of this one of the most important connectivity projects that will put Pakistan Railways on modern line. The process of consultations on the CPEC at different levels must continue with much more vigour and speed to reap its benefits as envisioned by the leadership of both Pakistan and China. We must understand that the speedy implementation of the CPEC-related projects will also help foil the designs of those elements that harbour nefarious designs against it.