Source: BBC Monitoring South Asia
Publisher: The British Broadcasting Corporation
Byline: 
Copyright: (c) 2019 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation. 
Publication Date: Apr 25, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,pakis,beijin,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Pakistan PM to leave for four-day China visit today

Snippet: Text of report in English by website of leading private Pakistani satellite TV channel Geo News on 25 April

ISLAMABAD: Prime Minister Imran Khan will embark upon a four-day official visit to China on Thursday [25 April].

Body: 
The prime minister will be visiting the country on the invitation of President Xi Jinping to attend the 2nd Belt and Road Forum in Beijing on Friday [26 April].

PM Imran will also deliver a keynote speech in the opening ceremony of the forum and participate in the Leaders' Round Table and participate in events related to the Belt and Road Initiative.

Belt and Road Forum provides a platform to countries participating in Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) for exchanging views and experiences on regional connectivity; policy synergy; socio-economic development and trade and commerce. Leaders from 40 countries and delegations from over 100 countries, international organisations and corporate sector would participate in the event.

In addition to participating in the Belt and Road Forum, PM Imran will also hold bilateral meetings with President Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang.

Pakistan and China will also sign several MoUs and Agreements to enhance bilateral cooperation in diverse areas, as per the statement.

The prime minister will also sign the second phase of the Free Trade Agreement between Pakistan and China during his visit to Beijing.

Following the forum, PM Imran will attend Beijing International Horticulture Exhibition-2019 and address Pakistan Trade and Investment Conference in Beijing.

This will be the premier's second visit to China since assuming office in August last year. PM Imran had earlier paid a state visit to China in November 2018.

Source: Geo News TV website, Karachi, in English 25 Apr 19