Source: Business Recorder
Publisher: Emmay Zed Publications (Private) Ltd
Byline: RECORDER REPORT 
Copyright: © 2019 Business Recorder. All Rights Reserved. 
Publication Date: Oct 28, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: SEZMC invites proposals for development of Dhabeji SEZ

Snippet: Sindh Economic Zones Management Company (SEZMC), a custodian of provincial Special Economic Zone (SEZ) has invited proposals for the development and operation of Dhabeji SEZ. According to details, Sindh government launched SEZ in district Thatta near Port Qasim. The Dhabeji Special Economic Zone was also highlighted in the recent joint working group (JWG) of industrial cooperation under China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC). The Chinese side during the JWG appreciated the Sindh government on the progress.

Body: 
The senior officials of National Development Reforms Commission (NDRC) of China showed their satisfaction on the proposed mechanism of this project. The Government of Sindh has launched this project through international competitive bidding process as a build-up to the upcoming 10th Joint Coordination Committee (JCC) meeting between China and Pakistan which is being held in next month. The Government of Pakistan has already been committed to provide utilities including Electricity and gas at the doorsteps of this zone and in this regard Federal government has budgeted rupees 4 billion for a dedicated grid station.

The Dhabeji Special Economic Zone consists on 1530 acres of land. The project is already declared as a "Priority Special Economic Zone" by the Government of Pakistan under the industrial cooperation phase of CPEC. The project will offer state of the art infrastructure, utilities at the doorsteps and easy access to the Ports of Karachi, ie, Karachi Port and Port Qasim and the main railway line (ML-1) and also to National highway. This industrial zone of the region provides a gateway to Central Asia, South Asia, Middle East and Africa. The project is expected to generate employment opportunities, create socio economic development and strengthen poverty alleviation in the region besides helping to boost country's exports.