Source: The Express Tribune
Publisher: The Express Tribune
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. The Express Tribune News Network. 
Publication Date: Dec 27, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Pakistan rolls out first batch of dual-seat JF-17 aircraft

Snippet: In yet another remarkable achievement, the Pakistan Air Force (PAF) rolled out first batch of '08 dual seat JF-17' aircraft from Pakistan Aeronautical Complex (PAC) in Kamra on Friday.

'To mark this momentous occasion, a grand ceremony was held at Aircraft Manufacturing Factory, Kamra where Air Chief Marshal Mujahid Anwar Khan was the chief guest at the occasion,' said the official statement.

Body: 
Highlighting the time tested friendship between China and Pakistan, the Chinese ambassador said the JF-17 is a testimony of Sino-Pak friendship and mutual cooperation.

Dual seat inauguration

Air Marshal Ahmer Shehzad, chairman PAC, highlighted the salient features of the project during the ceremony.

Chinese envoy Yao Jing and Aviation Industries of China (AVIC) Executive Vice President Hao Zhaoping also attended the ceremony as guest of honour.

According to the communique, the PAC and China National Aero-Technology Import and Export Corporation (CATIC) also signed an agreement for co-production of Chinese commercial aircraft.

The air chief congratulated PAC and CATIC on successful accomplishment of 2019 production target and completing first 08 dual-seat JF-17 aircraft in record time of five months.

Air chief marshal and Chinese envoy along with other members of the production team. PHOTO: PN

Air chief marshal and Chinese envoy along with other members of the production team. PHOTO: PN

The air chief marshal said that serial production of dual-seat variant is a landmark development for JF-17 programme and a true manifestation of everlasting friendship between both the friendly countries.

'JF-17 Thunder is the backbone of PAF which has been battle proven during operation Swift Retort,' he added.

Later in the day, the air chief also inaugurated JF-17 Dual-Seat Integration facility at Avionics Production Factory, Kamra.

'The facility will enable PAF to integrate avionics and weapon systems of choice with JF-17 aircraft, ultimaely providing the much needed self-reliance and operational flexibility,' the statement concluded.