Source: Frontier Star
Publisher: Frontier Star Publisher
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 Asianet-Pakistan 
Publication Date: Apr 25, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,easiaz,chinaz,pakis,apacz,asiaz,bric,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Sargodha university awards degrees to more than 78000 students

Snippet: The University of Sargodha conferred degrees on 78,701 students during its 6th convocation held at the main campus here on Thursday.

The ceremony was significant as it marked graduation of the 61 per cent girls of the total students. Acting Chinese Ambassador Lijian Zhao was chief guest while the Vice Chancellor Dr Ishtiaq Ahmad presided over the ceremony.

Body: 
On the occasion, 40 PhD degrees, 1,399 M.Phil, 31,724 MA/MSc, 15,961 BS/BBA and 29,577 BA/BSc degrees were awarded to the students from disciplines of Medical and Health Sciences, Pharmacy, Agriculture, Sciences, Arts and Humanities and Social Sciences.480 students with distinctions were honoured with medals.

The ceremony was initiated in a ritualistic manner, with the entrance of the academic procession comprising the Vice Chancellor and Deans of seven faculties at the convocation venue.

Addressing the ceremony, Lijian Zhao quoted a Hadith that 'Seek knowledge even if you have to go as far as China,' the Acting Ambassador urged the students to equip themselves with right knowledge and skills to play their part in taking Pak-China relations to the new heights and getting maximum benefits from the China Pakistan Economic Corridor.

'In 2010, only 2,000 Pakistani students were studying in China, however this number increased exponentially ever since the launch of CPEC, rising to 28,000 in 2018. Pakistan currently ranks third in the number of students studying in China, behind South Korea and Thailand,' he added.

He said that China offers a wide variety of scholarships to Pakistani students and encourages them to study in China. 'Out of a total 28,023 Pakistani students studying in China, more than 7000 are pursuing their education on scholarships.'

VC Dr Ishtiaq Ahmad said that the University is making a huge difference in the demographic and economic growth of Sargodha city and Punjab province, especially by generating skillful workforce, innovating agrarian products and providing community service.