Source: Business Recorder
Publisher: Emmay Zed Publications (Private) Ltd
Byline: MUSHTAQ GHUMMAN 
Copyright: © 2019 Business Recorder. All Rights Reserved. 
Publication Date: Apr 23, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Five pacts will be signed during PM's visit to China

Snippet: Pakistan and China will sign five pacts during the four-day visit of Prime Minister Imran Khan to China starting from April 25, 2019 (tomorrow), well-informed sources told Business Recorder. The deliverables which were approved by the Cabinet Committee on China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CCo CPEC) headed by Minister for Planning, Development and Reform and endorsed by the federal cabinet on April 23, 2019 are:

(i) MoU on implementation of socio-economic development projects between Ministry of Planning, Development and Reform and China International Development Cooperation Agency (CIDCA); (ii) signing of preliminary designing document of ML-1 project; (iii) signing of framework agreement for industrial cooperation; (iv) setting up of Pakistan China Business Forum; and (v) agriculture sector deliverables.

Body: 
The sources said Gwadar City Master plan has also been finalised which will be shared with the Chinese government, and decision has also been taken on some CPEC projects which include D I Khan-Zhob road (western corridor) through Chinese financing, Sukkur-Hyderabad Motorway (Eastern corridor) through BOT, Raikot and ML-I (Way forward).

According to sources, link between the Commerce Division was missing since the inception of the CPEC program; therefore, it was felt that a CPEC Business Advisory Council may be established for coordination between the business community and government on CPEC matters. The council will comprise of leading businessmen of the country from different sectors and government officials of the concerned departments. The Terms of Reference (ToRs) for the Council will be as follows: (i) to be the interface between business community and government on matters related to CPEC; (ii) to advise working groups on matters relating to CPEC; (iii) to recommend strategies for expediting ongoing and future B2B projects particularly industrial cooperation and development of Gwadar;(iv) to discuss new initiatives and major projects in social sector that support economic development under CPEC); (v) to advise on development an integrated approach on future development of CPEC with special focus on agriculture, industry and tourism; and (vii) to advise on any other issue referred by government of Pakistan.

Talking about socio-economic development cooperation under CPEC programme, the sources said, first meeting of the JWG socio economic development was held on December 19, 2018. Experts' team visited Pakistan from February 24 to March 8, 2019. Pakistan and China have already shared preliminary list of projects. Priority has been given to less developed areas of each province (e.g) Southern Punjab, Northern Sindh, newly merged areas of the KP. Fast track projects will be completed in one year whereas remaining projects will be completed in 2 and 3 years. The MoU on socioeconomic development will be signed during belt and road forum to ensure early implementation of the projects.

Commenting on ML-I project, the sources said, the project is an "early harvest project" under CPEC programme and it was declared strategic by both government in 6th JCC meeting held in December, 2016. Inter-Governmental Framework Agreement (FWA) was signed between the two governments for implementation of the project in May, 2017. The $8.2 billion project was to be implemented in two phases. Phase-I would have 9 priority sub-projects and phase-II would comprise of 7 sub-projects.

The Chinese maintained that the framework agreement needs to be followed and the project needs to be done in the ECP+F mode. Changing to other modes/models like BOT, BOOT etc would delay the project. The preliminary design of the project has been submitted by the design consultants and is being reviewed by the vetting consultants. Once there is consensus on the preliminary design and way forward, supplementary agreement to the framework agreement will be required.

Following way forward for the project were presented recently before the CCoCPEC: (i) elevate project ownership from the working level to the leadership level, i.e, declaration by both leaders at the belt and road forum on concessional financing terms; (ii) implementation of the project in 3 phases (or more) instead of 2 phases. Phases may be taken up concurrently if fiscal space allows and railways operations are not disrupted; (iii) reduce total cost from $8.2 billion to $ 6.08 billion by reducing the space. Karachi-Hyderabad new double line on new alignment to be offered on a BOT mode, Karachi-Hyderabad existing line overhauling deleted, all rolling stock has been deleted (to be procured through international competitive bidding as and when required), Taxila-Havelian section has been dropped and scope of work of a dry port near Havilian reduced in line with traffic forecasts; (iv) extend construction period from 5 to 8 years (or more); and (v) signing a supplementary framework agreement encompassing the changes at belt and road forum.

According to sources, a committee has been constituted under the chairmanship of Minister for Railways, comprising Secretaries of Railways, Economic Affairs Division, Planning and Member Infrastructure and PD( CPEC) Planning Commission to identify financial savings, phasing of the project, review the scope and design as well as framework agreement which presented its recommendations.

Ministry of National Food Security and Research has prepared deliverables to include MoU on FMD Free Zones, framework agreement on agriculture cooperation.

The Planning Commission has also decided that to develop Hyderabad-Sukkur Motorway on eastern route through BOT Mode. NHA will complete the design and feasibility and award of contract to be done till end of this year. It has also been decided that the project of 132km transmission line will be completed on fast track basis to lineup Makran coastal belt with national grid.

Ministry of Planning, Development & Reform will expedite approval of PC-I. Board of Investment (BoI) has been directed to focus on the development of priority SEZs under CPEC and take up the matter of signing of framework agreement on industrial cooperation with Chinese side during the meeting on Belt and Road Forum (BRF). BoI has been further directed to focus on Islamabad IT Zone and take up on its own if the implementing agency was unable to achieve progress on this zone.