Source: Pakistan Observer
Publisher: Pakistan Observer
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Observer 
Publication Date: Dec 26, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,india,punjab,pakis,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Certificate-presentation of Chinese training course held

Snippet: The certificate presentation award ceremony of the Chinese training course for punjab police was held at the University of Punjab.

The ceremony was attended by Long Dingbin, the Chinese Lahore Consul General,Prof Niaz Ahmad Akhtar, Vice Chancellor of Punjab University, Sheikh M. Umar, DIG of SPU Punjab Police and other.

Body: 
Host Director of CIPU, and 50 police officers representatives who participated in the training course, reports Gwadar Pro Net.

Chinese musical Zither and Kungfu were performed by teachers from CIPU before the ceremony.

Long Dingbin, Chinese Lahore Consul General congratulated the successful completion of the Chinese language training course and underscored that China and Pakistan are all-weather strategic partners and good friends, brothers and neighbors.

In order to smoothly promote the construction of the CPEC and ensure the safety of Chinese enterprises and Chinese citizens, the Punjab provincial government has set up a special security protection unit of more than 5000 people, reflecting the mutual care and support between the two 'iron brothers'.

The Consul General further said that in September this year, at the proposal of Mr. Nadeem and the active coordination of the Consulate General, the CIPU successfully organized the Chinese training courses for SPU police officers, which will help both sides remove language barriers, enhance understanding and promote cooperation.

Prof Niaz Ahmad Akhtar,the Vice Chancellor of Punjab university stated that his mission is to raise the productivity of thier graduates through quality education and practical knowledge to contribute in a significant way to the national economy.

Chinese learning is conductive to creating and disseminating bilaterally mutual cultural understanding, friendship and humanity communication between China and Pakistan.