Source: Associated Press Newswires
Publisher: The Associated Press
Byline: 
Copyright: (c) 2019.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 
Publication Date: Sep 24, 2019

Region Codes: ,eland,pakis,russ,arg,china,fra,italy,wuhan,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,eecz,eeurz,eurz,hubei,indsubz,lamz,medz,samz,sasiaz,uk,ussrz,weurz,

Title: BC-AP--AP Sports Digest, AP

Snippet: WORLD SPORTS AT 2300 GMT:

TOP STORY:

Body: 
SOC--ENGLISH ROUNDUP

Tottenham was eliminated from the English League Cup by fourth-tier Colchester after a penalty shootout on Tuesday, an embarrassing loss amid a tough season for a team that was playing in a Champions League final less than four months ago. By Steve Douglas. SENT: 550 words, photos.

SOC--ITALIAN ROUNDUP

MILAN _ Mario Balotelli was kept quiet on his return to Serie A as his Brescia side lost 2-1 at home to eight-time defending champion Juventus on Tuesday. An own goal from Brescia defender Jhon Chancellor and Miralem Pjanic's second-half strike saw Juventus come from behind after Alfredo Donnarumma's early opener. By Daniella Matar. SENT: 400 words, photos.

SOC--SPANISH ROUNDUP

MADRID _ Lionel Messi and Antoine Griezmann gave a glimpse of what the duo can achieve for Barcelona, but the partnership didn't last long because of another injury to Messi. The Argentina star set up Griezmann's opening goal in the 2-1 win over Villarreal at Camp Nou Stadium on Tuesday, but then had to be replaced at halftime of his first start after a long injury layoff. By Tales Azzoni. SENT: 500 words, photos.

SOC--UEFA MEETING

LJUBLJANA, Slovenia _ UEFA announced the venues for three upcoming Champions League finals and stepped into the global politics of women's rights by urging European soccer teams not to play in countries where female fans are barred from stadiums. The Champions League finals from 2021 through 2023 will be played in St. Petersburg, Munich and London, the UEFA executive committee decided Tuesday. By Graham Dunbar. SENT: 500 words, photos.

SOC--MAN UNITED-FINANCES

MANCHESTER, England _ Injuries are starting to bite, rivals are already pulling clear, and a former captain says it is "scary" how far the team has fallen. Six games into the Premier League and there are already signs it will be a tough season for Manchester United and its manager, Ole Gunnar Solskjaer. SENT: 500 words, photos.

SOC--ITALY-RACISM

ROME _ FIFA president Gianni Infantino lambasted Italian soccer authorities for "hiding the truth" about racism in a scathing assessment Tuesday following a complete lack of punishment after three cases of discriminatory chants during the four opening rounds of Serie A. By Andrew Dampf. SENT: 550 words.

CRICKET:

CRI--PAKISTAN-SRI LANKA

ISLAMABAD _ Sri Lanka's cricket team arrived in Pakistan on Tuesday for a series of limited-overs matches, with the Pakistani government promising to give the players the same level of security as a head of state. It is the first time since Sri Lanka's team bus was attacked by terrorists in Lahore in 2009 that a foreign team will conduct a two-week tour of Pakistan. By Rizwan Ali. SENT: 500 words, photos.

TENNIS:

TEN--WUHAN OPEN

WUHAN, China _ Top-ranked Ash Barty came from a set down to beat Caroline Garcia of France 4-6, 6-4, 6-1 Tuesday in the second round of the Wuhan Open. Garcia beat Barty in the 2017 Wuhan final, but the Australian No. 1 managed to cut down on her mistakes after making 19 unforced errors in the first set. SENT: 300 words.

RUGBY:

RWC-SAMOA-RUSSIA

KUMAGAYA, Japan _ Samoa accounted for Russia 34-9 in an incident-packed Rugby World Cup match that featured three yellow cards that could easily have been red. The difference was in how they managed their yellows on a tropical evening Tuesday that felt more like Apia than Moscow. By Foster Niumata. SENT: 700 words, photos.

YOUR QUERIES: Questions and story requests are welcome Contact your local AP bureau or the AP International Sports Desk in London by telephone at +44 207 427 4224 or email lonsports@ap.org