Source: BBC Monitoring South Asia
Publisher: The British Broadcasting Corporation
Byline: 
Copyright: (c) 2019 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation. 
Publication Date: Oct 22, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,india,asiaz,bric,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Highlights from Pakistan's Pashto-language TV, press, websites 22 Oct 19

Snippet: THE FOLLOWING IS A BBCM SELECTION OF MAJOR NEWS ITEMS PUBLISHED IN PAKISTAN'S PASHTO-LANGUAGE TV, PRESS AND ONLINE MEDIA OUTLETS ON 22 OCTOBER 2019.

Wahdat

Body: 
KP Government inaugurates mobile app for emergency services

The chief minister of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP) Mahmood Khan has formally inaugurated mobile app based rescue services "1122" in Peshawar. While addressing to the event, the chief minister said that it is the first time that government is providing free emergency health service and fire brigade services through the mobile app. He said that the app will help in saving precious human lives. (front page, 240 words approx.)

Chinese companies want to invest in Pakistan: PM Khan

Prime Minister Imran Khan has termed the first energy power project [China Hub Power Generation Plant in Balochistan] under China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) a good omen for Pakistan. He said that CPEC is a great opportunity for Pakistan. He added, however, it would be better if we use local fuel sources for our power projects. He said that government will provide assistance to the investors. Imran Khan added that Chinese companies wanted to invest in Pakistan. (front page, 240 words approx.)

JUI-F's chief to bring calamity: KP information minister

Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Information Minister Shaukat Yousafzai has said that the chief of Jamiat-i-Ulema-i-Islam-Fazl (JUI-F), Maulana Fazlur Rehman, will lead the country to a calamity. He said that the JUI-F protest call has affected the Kashmir cause badly. He added that the JUI-F's chief should review his decision about the protest march. (front page,180 words approx.)

[Wahdat gives good and equal coverage to both sides of the Durand Line (Pakistan-Afghan frontier), with a focus on Pashtun issues. The paper also publishes interviews with Afghan political leaders. It provides a balanced mix of anti-Taliban and pro-Taliban opinion.]

Khabroona

Government may place JUI-F chief under house arrest

Government has decided to house arrest the chief of JUI-F, Maulana Fazlur Rehman, if the talks with his party failed. Sources in the interior ministry said that there are chances that government could house arrest JUI-F chief before 23 October. Sources added that JUI-F top eight figures can also be arrested for one to three months. Sources added details on Ansarul Islam [subordinate organisation of JUI-F] are also being forwarded to Prime minister, which may lead a ban of the subordinate group. ( front page, 250 words approx.)

Karachi is economic hub of Pakistan, says government figure

Firdous Ashiq Awan, Special Assistant to Prime Minister for Information and Broadcasting, has said that Karachi is the economic engine of Pakistan. She said that Prime Minister Imran Khan is committed to the wellbeing of people in Karachi. She said that prime minister will visit Karachi on Wednesday [23 October] where he will meet leaders of PTI (Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf) and other coalition parties. (front page, 220 words approx.)

Pakistan supports peace process: Senate chairman

Senate [member of the upper house of the parliament] Chairman Sadiq Sanjrani has condemned Indian aggression on Line of Control (LoC - de facto border that divides Kashmir between India and Pakistan) and said that the Indian forces are violating cease fire agreement. He said that the Indian forces are killing innocent civilian on the LoC. He urged the international community to play its role in the Kashmir issue. He added that Pakistan will keep supporting peace process in the region. (front page, 250 words approx.)

[Khabroona is owned by the Peshawar-based Subh Group, which also publishes the Urdu daily Subh. It provides good coverage to both sides of the Durand Line (the Pakistan-Afghan frontier), with a focus on Pashtun issues. It provides a balanced mix of anti-Taliban and pro-Taliban opinion.]

Hewad

Four police personnel injured in explosion at Quetta

An explosive device went up near a police van on Spenai road of Quetta, provincial capital of Balochistan. The explosion injured four police personnel. The explosive device was installed in a motorcycle. After the explosion, the rescue teams shifted injured to the hospitals for medical treatment. (front page, 200 words approx.)

Two new polio cases surfaces in KP province

Two new polio cases have been surfaced in Laki Marwat area of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. With the new cases the number of polio cases has reached to 56 in KP province. According to Emergency Operation Centre, the children affected by polio were two- and seven-year old respectively. The statement added that the affected children were not vaccinated. (front page, 240 words approx.)

[Hewad is Pakistan's oldest Pashto newspaper, and gives equal coverage to both sides of the Durand Line (the Pakistan-Afghanistan frontier), with a focus on Pashtuns and religion.]

Tribal News Network

Talks between PTI government, JUI-F stands cancelled

The talks between government committee and JUI-F have been cancelled. Senate Chairman Saddiq Hussain Sanjrani was supposed to meet JUI-F leader Abdul Ghafoor Haideri, however, the meeting did not happen. Sources say that JUI-F's chief has assured opposition parties of not having any intention to tilt for negotiation with the government. (front page, 230 words approx.)

U.S. defence secretary visits Afghanistan

Mark Esper, U.S. Secretary of Defence, has reached to Afghanistan to resume talks with [Afghan] Taliban. The defence secretary said their purpose is to reach to a peace deal or political accord in Afghanistan. The defence secretary will also meet the incumbent Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and the American forces in Afghanistan. Mark Esper said that the talk is a responsibility of the state department and they can reduce forces in Afghanistan. (front page, 200 words approx.)

Water scarcity in Mohmand district troubles local residents

The residents of various areas in Mohmand district are compelled to buy drinking water due to water scarcity. There are many areas in Mohmand district, where the residents are facing problems in getting drinking water. The residents said that they are unable to buy drinking water on retail price. They also requested government to solve their issue. (front page, 180 words approx.)

[Tribal News Network (TNN) is a Peshawar-based online multimedia news agency. It provides news from Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and the erstwhile tribal areas and focusses on their issues and problems. It was established in 2014 to serve radio audiences through partner FM radio stations and has now evolved into a news portal.]

Pashtun Gazette

U.S. senate leaders in Afghanistan

Speaker of the United States House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi and other members of the senate [the upper chamber of the United States Congress] have reached to Afghanistan on their visit. The delegation met the incumbent president of Afghanistan Ashraf Ghani and Chief Executive Dr. Abdullah Abdullah. According to Office of the President of Afghanistan, the meeting discussed promoting bilateral ties and issues related to war against terrorism. Afghan President showed appreciation for the U.S. financial support and expressed gratitude for the sacrifices made by the US armed forces. (front page, 250 words approx.)

No 'terrorist' camps in Pakistan-administered Kashmir: DG ISPR

Major General Asif Ghafoo, Director General Inter Service Public Relations (DG ISPR), the media wing of Pakistan's army, has rejected the claim made by the Indian army chief on destroying terrorist camps in Pakistan-administered Kashmir. DG ISPR termed the Indian claim as propaganda. He said there are no such camps in Kashmir. DG ISPR made an offer to the Indian envoy and other diplomats to visit the areas mentioned by the Indian army chief. (front page, 240 words approx.)

[Pashtun Gazette is a bilingual news portal in Pashto and Urdu. Reportage in the two languages differs due to the different target audiences. The Pashto section of the website is mostly about Pakistan's erstwhile tribal areas, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Afghanistan, while the Urdu section is about mainstream Pakistani issues.]

Date Line (Prime Time Talk Show on AVT Khyber News at 17:00 GMT)

Case of 'hidden cameras' in Balochistan University

Anchor Hassan Khan said that recently a scandal has surfaced in Balochistan University, where the university administration blackmailed students with the videos of hidden cameras installed in various spots of the university.

Journalist Syed Ali Shah said that for the entire episode, the Vice Chancellor of the university is responsible. He also said that the officials of university administration were involved in the scandal. He stated that students were blackmailed with these videos. He maintained that Balochistan is conservative and a tribal society, where female ratio is very low, almost less than 10 percent of education ratio in most of the districts. The scam will further bring down the ratio.

The spokesperson of Balochistan government Liaqat Shahwani said that the scam is very condemnable. He added that harassment and blackmailing would not be tolerated and the provincial government has asked Federal Investigative Agency to investigate the matter. He said that scandal is against our cultural and human rights; government will act against all those responsible.

Vice Chancellor Manzor Kundi of Bahauddin Zakariya University Multan, said that IT (Information Technology) department of the university should be aware of the installed cameras and it should have checked the washrooms of the university. He said that there are chances of the involvement of higher officials in the scam.

[AVT Khyber News is Pakistan's first Pashto-language satellite news channel and was launched in 2007. The Islamabad-based channel is owned by the AVT group, which first launched AVT Khyber (an entertainment channel) in 2004. AVT says it is "the voice of Pashtuns around the world". It has a network of reporters in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province and in Afghanistan.]

Mashriq Leads (Prime Time Talk Show on Mashriq TV at 14:00 GMT)

Wheat shortage in KP province

Anchor Salman Ali Shah said that despite the claims of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa government, the price of flour has increased and the Punjab government has put ban on wheat transport to KP. All Flour Mills Association President Naeem Butt said that the irregular rain fall in Pakistan has affected wheat production. He stressed on KP government to buy wheat from Punjab. He also warned about extreme wheat shortage in coming days. The KP Minister for Food Qalandr Lodhi assured that the decision of Punjab government will be soon waved off. He said that the provincial government is trying to settle matters with Punjab government and in case of failure the issue will be raised with the prime minister.

Protest of doctors in KP province

Anchor Salman Ali Shah said that the conflict between KP government and doctor's community is not moving towards any solution. He added that doctors are claiming that government is privatising the hospitals.

Chairman Grand Health Alliance (doctor's union leading the protest) Dr. Alamgir said that their body have also recorded the protest against Medical Teaching Institute Act of 2015 and they have arranged hunger strikes against the MTI act. He said that the doctor's community is committed towards their cause.

Raham Yousafzai said that patients are fed up of the doctor's strike due to prolonged protest. He added that government is recruiting 400 new doctors in government hospital and it is unwilling to listen to the doctors.

[Mashriq TV is a Pashto-language channel launched in August 2016 and is a partner station of the BBC. It is owned by the Mashriq group of newspapers which also publishes English-language daily The Statement. The channel is observed to carry balanced reporting with no overt leanings towards any political party or group.]

Source: BBC Monitoring in Pashto 1030 gmt 22 Oct 19