Source: Dawn
Publisher: Pakistan Herald Publications (Pvt.) Limited
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Dawn 
Publication Date: Aug 29, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,pakis,chinaz,apacz,asiaz,bric,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: 21 students set to leave for China on scholarship

Snippet: As many as 21 Pakistani scholars are all set to leave for China to purse higher education.

The Higher Education Commission (HEC) on Thursday organised a send-off ceremony for the scholars proceeding to China under 'Inherit of Pak-China Friendship, Hundred Talent Study Financing Programme.'

Body: 
Chinese Economic and Commercial Counsellor Wang Zhuhai of Chinese Embassy was chief guest on the occasion.Executive Director HEC retired Lt Gen Mohammad Asghar, China Road and Bridge Corporation (CRBC) General Manager Li Zhihuai, diplomats and others attended the ceremony.

The HEC and CRBCsigned a memorandum of understanding in 2017 to initiate the Inherit of study financing programme.

ARTICLE CONTINUES AFTER AD

Speaking on the occasion, Mr Zhuhai congratulated the scholars and stressed the need for promoting people-to-people exchange between China and Pakistan through such initiatives.

He said human resource cooperation between the two countries was vital to enhance bilateral relations. He affirmed that China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) would further cement the relations, adding the project had entered a new phase as a large number of Chinese companies were investing in the project.

The HEC ED termed the award of scholarships a good opportunity for the scholars to not only acquire education but also learn Chinese culture and traditions. He advised the students not to limit the scope of their education to a degree and expand their canvas to learning about the vast spectrum of engineering, covering logistics, infrastructure and impact.

He said about 25,000 Pakistani students were currently studying in China and the number was likely to grow.

'HEC will continue supporting the Chinese Embassy and companies like CRBC in creating study opportunities for Pakistani youth,' he added.

Earlier, Mr Zhihuai highlighted the important role of CRBC in carrying out development work in Pakistan.

Director General HEC (Human Resource Development) Raza Chohan said 29 Pakistani students have so far been sent to study transportation engineering in Southeast University of China.

According to the HEC, the scholarship programme is in line with the government of Pakistan's vision of development through CPEC. The scholarship is fully-funded and covers tuition, accommodation, return airfare and living stipend for all candidates.