Source: Pakistan Today
Publisher: Nawa Media (Pvt.) Limited
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Nawa Media (PVT.) Limited. 
Publication Date: Mar 23, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,pakis,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: China provide $0.2m aid for Balochistan flood victims

Snippet: Asianet Pakistan Private Limited

China has provided $0.2 million financial aid for rehabilitation of flood affectees in Balochistan.Chinese Ambassador to Pakistan, Yao Jing, has handed over the relief cheque to Governor Amanullah Khan Yasinzai during a ceremony held at Balochistan House.

Body: 
While addressing the event, Yao Jing said that the Chinese government has provided $0.2 million financial assistance to carry out relief activities in the affected parts of Balochistan received heavy downpour.Jing said that the funds will assist rehabilitation of rain affectees in the province.

He added that Pakistan was moving on the journey of prosperity, progress and peace.The envoy said that all political parties in Balochistan have supported the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) and the project will be helpful for the uplift of underprivileged areas.

Governor Yasinzai said that some areas of the province were badly affected by the recent rains. He welcomed the Chinese government over the provision of financial aid for rehabilitation of rain affected persons in Balochistan.

In March, at least 15 people lost their lives while 31 others suffered wounds in different incidents caused by the recent spate of heavy rains in large swathes of the country.According to data released by the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), most fatalities were reported from Balochistan where nine people died in rain-related incidents while more than 500 houses were partially or fully destroyed.

Four people were killed in similar incidents in tribal districts the erstwhile Federally Administrated Tribal Areas (Fata) while two other persons died in other parts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.