Source: The Balochistan Times
Publisher: Asianet-Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 The Balochistan Times 
Publication Date: Mar 07, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,pakis,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: NAVTTC, Chinese companies to absorb Pakistani workforce in CPEC projects

Snippet: The Chinese companies engaged in the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) in collaboration with the National Vocational and Technical Training Commission (NAVTTC) will develop a joint mechanism to absorb thousands of Pakistani skilled workforce in CPEC projects.

This was stated by the Chinese ambassador, Yao Jing, during a meeting with the Chairman and Executive Director of NAVTTC held here Thursday.

Body: 
'To enhance further collaboration with NAVTTC, CPEC Companies Association will present a draft Memorandum of Understanding in the near future', the ambassador said.

'China-Pakistan Economic Corridor plan was a living proof of friendship between Pakistan and China and the entire region would benefit from it, said the Chairman NAVTTC, Syed Javed Hassan.

Investment in youth is the only path towards economic development, he added. At present we are producing only 400, 000 skilled people each year and we are committed to add the number up to one million during the next 18 months, he added.

The Executive Director, Dr. Nasir Khan gave a detailed briefing to the ambassador about the initiatives of NAVTTC for successful implementation of TVET reform agendas.

'Right now our priority areas include ridding governance structure from fragmentation, increasing capacity of TVET system, improving quality, ensuring meaningful involvement of industry, delivering equal access (Skills for all), producing skilled labor workforce to meet international job requirements, and building a positive image of TVET to attract more youth towards skill sector, " Dr. Khan said.

"Socio-economic Development Group formed under CPEC framework will facilitate Pakistan in providing vocational training to its young population', the ambassador said.

He also said that his country will help establish world class technical institutions along the route of CPEC where thousands of skilled people will be trained to meet the needs of local and global markets.

Chairman thanked the Chinese ambassador on the cooperation of China and presented a memento to him.