Source: Daily Balochistan Express
Publisher: Asianet-Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Daily Balochistan Express, Quetta 
Publication Date: Dec 04, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: DC Gwadar, Chinese delegation sign MoU to enhance relationship

Snippet: A representative delegation of the Popang Municipal Peoples' Government of the Pidan province of Public Republic of China visited the port city of Gwadar on Wednesday.

On the occasion, a Memorandum of Understanding was signed between the Chinese delegation and the Deputy Commissioner of the District Administration, Gwadar Capt. (R) Muhammad Wasim, for strengthening friendship and cooperation among the people of both cities.

Body: 
In this connection, various issues were discussed between DC Gwadar Muhammad Wasim and the delegation of the People's Republic of China for the improvement of various sectors and projects.

Representatives of the Chinese delegation said that in 2006 Gwadar and Pipang were named sister cities, the agreement was made in Beijing to promote equal relations between the two cities on March 28, 2019

The Chinese and Seasporse Holding Company signed an agreement under which the Poapang and Gwadar City Friendship Forest will be built to meet the financial needs of the project. Under the agreement, the construction and maintenance will be the responsibility of the Piping Municipal People's Government.

The district administration will provide resources to Gwadar administration.

On the occasion, the delegation of the Poapang People's government of Hunan province visited Gwadar Institution Development Hospital and discussed various issues and informed that under Sister City Relationship, China Overseas Port Holding Company will fulfill the responsibility of designing and construction. The Gwadar Institute Development Hospital will provide free remote consultation and training in Gwadar as well as implement other projects.