Source: Pakistan Observer
Publisher: Pakistan Observer
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Observer 
Publication Date: May 02, 2019

Region Codes: ,chinaz,easiaz,pakis,apacz,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: PRC volunteers pledge their oath at global day

Snippet: Pakistan Red Crescent (PRC) has arranged a week-long event to mark its international day where the volunteers have taken oath to serve the masses strangled in disasters and facing difficulties. During the ceremony, Islamabad Traffic Police personnel were given umbrellas to assist every person.

Speaking on the occasion, PRC Chairman Dr Saeed Elahi said that PRC had been contributing its services for many years and stressed the need of promoting volunteerism in the current situation. He said that PRC was working on the mission to help humanity in every situation and prevalent condition.

Body: 
Elahi said PRC was committed to deal with any disastrous situations like earthquake, floods and hot conflict. He said that PRC was the voice of the poor and vulnerable people striving to assist them in all possible ways. Dr Saeed Elahi said the main purpose of this ceremony was to promote the vision of its founder Henry Donut, to active our young generation for helping the poor.

'The 60 percent of the country's population comprises of youth so they are the main pillars of the country and can do much for the development of the country,' he said. He pledged to actively participate in promotion of PRCS initiatives like the first-aid trainings and afforestation and health and hygiene campaigns. 'Its PRC's speciality to response quickly with rescue relief in any kind of emergency,' he added.

Addressing to the ceremony, PRC Secretary General Khalid bin Majeed said PRC would continue its assistance to the masses across the country. He said that law makers always stood besides PRC to dig out the vulnerable situations and devise mechanisms to cope with them. He went on to say that blood camps would be started at police lines and the police would impart first aid training. The event was attended by the prominent personalities from academia, philanthropists, representatives of international humanitarian organizations and corporate sector.