Source: Daily Messenger
Publisher: Daily Messenger
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Daily Messenger 
Publication Date: Nov 24, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,usa,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,namz,sasiaz,

Title: How the US official got it wrong on China-Pakistan cooperation: China media

Snippet: Alice Wells, a U.S. State Department official for South and Central Asia, has claimed that Chinese infrastructure projects in Pakistan would damage the latter's economy over the long term and solely benefit China. The accusations were made apparently out of a habit by some U.S. politicians to muddy waters, with an ulterior motive this time to drive a wedge between the two neighboring countries, Chinese media reported Sunday.

Body: 
Facts tell how Wells, the principal deputy assistant secretary for the Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs, got it wrong. She willfully ignored the win-win nature of the cooperation and turned a blind eye to the households across Pakistan illuminated under the projects. The China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) is now in its sixth year and has been broadly accepted by the Pakistani public as a model for promoting winwin cooperation that can help boost the South Asian country's economy, something that Wells has purposely turned back on. The Pakistani leadership has reiterated on severaloccasions that CPEC bolsters Pakistan's development.

Prime Minister Imran Khan recently vowed to ensure that CPEC remains his government's priority and called for more joint investment under the mega project. In the past six years, energy projects completed under the CPEC have contributed to around 30 percent of Pakistan's total electricity generation, illuminating millions of local households and fueling the country's industrial growth. Power plants under the CPEC also provide electricity at the lowest price among all 131 thermal power plants in Pakistan, according to the latest electricity purchase data released by Pakistan's National Transmission and Despatch Company Ltd.

Transportation infrastructure has also brought convenience to local residents and businesses and cut travel time between major cities by half. In Gwadar, the restoration of the port and the newly-built free trade zone have attracted over 600 million U.S. dollars of investment from over 20 Chinese and Pakistani enterprises. On employment, CPEC has directly created more than 75,000 local jobs and involved over 100 Pakistani smalland medium-sized enterprises in the past six years. The Pakistani government estimated that CPEC will create 2.3 million jobs from 2015 to 2030, which is in line with Pakistan's economic agend