Source: Pakistan Press International Information Services
Publisher: Pakistan Press International Information Services
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Press International Information Services 
Publication Date: Apr 01, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,china,apacz,asiaz,bric,chinaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Pak China Agree to continue Momentum on CPEC China appreciates Pakistan's Efforts to Fast Track CPEC - Press Note issued by Press Information Department

Snippet: April 02, 2019 (PPI-OT)

Following is the text of press note issued by Press Information Department (PID)

Body: 
Quote

Mr. Yao Jing, Chinese Ambassador in Islamabad called on Federal Minister for Planning, Development and Reform Makhdum Khusro Bakhtyar. The Ambassador appreciated Government of Pakistan's efforts to fast track the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor projects particularly the ground-breaking of western route. Minister for Planning hailed China's support for implementation of Gwadar Airport project. Secretary Planning Zafar Hasan, Member Private Sector Asim Saeed, Project Director CPEC Hasan Daud and senior officials were also present on the occasion.

Makhdum Khusro said that the present Government attaches top priority to the development of Gwadar, highlighting that Prime Minister Imran Khan in his recent visit to Balochistan performed ground-breaking of the Rs. 65 billion Zhob-Kuchlak section of western route, Rs. 17 billion project of transmission line for Makran coast, Rs. 23 billion new Gwadar Airport project, hospital as well as vocational institute. The implementation of 300 MW energy project in Gwadar will be aligned with the development of Gwadar.

Minister said that CPEC has gained momentum and efforts would be made to continue the same pace in future. He stated that first special economic zone at Rashakai will be launched soon in order to enter into the implementation stage of Pak-China Industrial Cooperation. He further said that cooperation will be further strengthened by formal framework agreement focusing on joint ventures, and B2B cooperation. The Minister emphasized the need for robust cooperation between the business communities of the two countries.

'We should move towards Pak-China Business Forum with representatives from leading companies of the two countries in various areas', said the Minister. During the meeting, deliverables for the proposed visit of the Prime Minister to China to participate in the second Belt and Road Forum this month came under discussion regarding areas of industry cooperation, agriculture, socio-economic development and infrastructure. The Minister called for cooperation in agriculture, fisheries and livestock sectors between the two countries to benefit from the enormous potential this area offers.

For more information, contact:Principal Information Officer,Press Information Department (PID)Tel: +92-51-9252323, +92-51-9252324Fax: +92-51-9252325, +92-51-9252326Email: piopid@gmail.comWebsite: www.pid.gov.pk

Unquote