Source: Pakistan Official News
Publisher: Asianet-Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: (c) 2019. AsiaNet-Pakistan 
Publication Date: Oct 06, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,chinaz,easiaz,pakis,apacz,asiaz,bric,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Prime Minister's visit to China (8-9 October 2019) - Press Note issued by Press Information Department

Snippet: October 07, 2019 (PPI-OT)

Following is the text of press note issued by Press Information Department (PID)

Body: 
Quote

At the invitation of Premier of the State Council of the Peoples' Republic of China H.E. Li Keqiang, Prime Minister Imran Khan will be visiting China from 8-9 October 2019. The Prime Minister would have meetings with President Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang. President Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang will separately host banquets in honour of the Prime Minister. A number of Agreements/MoUs are expected to be signed at a ceremony to be witnessed by the two Prime Ministers.

Prime Minister Imran Khan will be accompanied by a high-level delegation including the Foreign Minister; Minister for Railways; Minister for Planning, Development and Reform; Adviser to the Prime Minister on Commerce; Special Assistant to the Prime Minister on Petroleum; Chairman BOI and senior officials. The Chief of Army Staff will join the Prime Minister's meetings with Premier Li Keqiang and President Xi Jinping.

The visit of the Prime Minister is in continuation of the long-established tradition of the leadership of the two countries meeting regularly and consulting closely on bilateral, regional and international issues of mutual interest. The Prime Minister will exchange views on regional developments including the state of peace and security in South Asia arising from the situation in occupied Jammu and Kashmir since 5 August 2019. The visit will be instrumental in further cementing Pakistan's economic, investment and strategic ties with China.

Among other things, the Prime Minister will apprise the Chinese leadership of the government's recent landmark decisions to speed-up implementation of ongoing CPEC projects as well as efforts to project CPEC as a High-Quality Demonstration Project of BRI. There will be interaction with senior representatives of the Chinese business and corporate sector for deepening bilateral trade, commercial and investment partnership.

The Prime Minister will also be participating in the closing ceremony of the Beijing International Horticulture Expo, as a Chief Guest, where Premier Li Keqiang will be the host. Pakistan and China are closest friends, staunch partners and 'iron brothers'. The two countries are joined together in an "All-Weather Strategic Cooperative Partnership". This time-tested friendship between the two countries is based on unparalleled mutual trust, understanding and commonality of interests. The leadership of both countries is fully committed to building closer China-Pakistan Community of Shared Future in the New Era.

For more information, contact:Principal Information Officer,Press Information Department (PID)Tel: +92-51-9252323, +92-51-9252324Fax: +92-51-9252325, +92-51-9252326Email: piopid@gmail.comWebsite: www.pid.gov.pk

Unquote