Source: Business Recorder
Publisher: Emmay Zed Publications (Private) Ltd
Byline: RECORDER REPORT 
Copyright: © 2019 Business Recorder. All Rights Reserved. 
Publication Date: Nov 18, 2019

Region Codes: ,china,chinaz,rawlp,pakis,apacz,asiaz,bric,devgcoz,dvpcoz,easiaz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Two universities to be established with China's help: Rashid

Snippet: Federal Minister for Railways Sheikh Rashid Ahmed has announced to establish a railways university and an IT university in cooperation with China.

While talking to media persons here on Monday, Rashid said that land for the university would be provided by the Pakistan Railways which would be constructed with the investment of China. The railways minister said that an IT university would also be established in Rawalpindi. The minister further said that the railways infrastructure will be upgraded under the ML-1 project at a fast pace. This project will significantly reduce the travel time for passengers, he added.

Body: 
The minister reiterated that the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) government will complete its five-year term and not budge or cave in due to pressure being exerted by external forces. Replying to a question, the railways minister said that the government would complete its full five-year term. He said that the government is striving to check inflation and unemployment.

Rashid warned former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif not to do politics over his health otherwise he may have to suffer the consequences.

The federal minister addressed a ceremony at Government College in Rawalpindi and maintained that the federal government should also not appeal against the Lahore High Court's (LHC) decision, allowing the former premier to travel abroad without any conditionality. "I do not believe in doing politics over a sick man. Nawaz should be allowed to go abroad. The government should not go to the Supreme Court against the LHC verdict," he said.

Rashid said that Azadi March is the first-ever sit-in lodged by followers of Emir Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam-Fazl (JUI-F) and it failed to get public attention. He predicted that the JUI-F will witness fall of seats in the next election as Fazl's politics has come to an end. He further said that Maulana's misconception has ended and he came to know the fact that no one is supporting him. Pakistan Muslim League-Quaid (PML-Q) is standing with Prime Minister Imran Khan, the federal minister added.

The railways minister admitted about inflation and unemployment in the country, and assured that PM Imran Khan is working to overcome these challenges. He claimed that all detainees are considering plea-bargain except Pakistan Peoples Party leader Khursheed Ahmed Shah.

The minister said the Leh Expressway Project would also be executed and it is his utmost effort that a rail track is also made the part of the project in order to fully facilitate the commuters of Rawalpindi and Islamabad.

Later, the railways minister was admitted to a hospital after he complained about pain in his chest on Monday. The minister was meeting the people at his residence Lal Haveli when he felt pain in his chest.

He was immediately shifted to the hospital where a medical investigation was conducted. After an angiography, doctors said that Rashid has blood pressure issue.