Source: Frontier Star
Publisher: Frontier Star Publisher
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 Asianet-Pakistan 
Publication Date: Apr 02, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Govt will make efforts to develop economic consensus: Asad Umar

Snippet: Finance Minister Asad Umar says the government will make its best efforts to develop economic consensus beyond party politics for progress and prosperity of the country.

He was addressing a Pre-budget Consultation and launching ceremony of a book titled "Growth and Inequality in Pakistan," authored by former Finance Minister Hafiz Pasha, in Islamabad on Tuesday.

Body: 
The Minister said parliamentary standing committees are the best fora to prepare medium-term framework for introducing economic reforms.

The Finance Minister said he has prepared a draft of reforms, which will be shared with the Standing Committee of the National Assembly on Finance on Thursday.

Asad Umar was of the view that political confrontation dents economy; however, proceeds against crime for establishing rule of law cannot be suspended for the sake of economic consensus. He expressed confidence that rule of law will rather help boost economy in the country.

The Finance Minister said the last PML-N government made jugglery with economic figures, and the same has been exposed by independent economists like Dr. Hafiz Pasha in their articles.

He said economic growth rate will get increased, but immediately after taking over the charge of affairs, the government had to face serious challenges of low central bank reserves and huge current account deficit.endorsing reforms proposed by Dr. Hafiz Pasha for economic progress of the country, Asad Umar said almost all the suggestions presented by the renowned economist are part of the government's agenda. He expressed hope that state capture by the elite will get dented through continuity of political process. He supported the proposals of reducing withholding taxes, reforms in capital gain tax, and introduction of wealth tax and inheritance tax.

Speaking on the occasion, Advisor on Commerce Abdul Razzak Dawood said Pakistan is going to sign a much better-negotiated Free Trade Agreement with China soon as trade balance had already been greatly in favour of China. He said the last PML-N government had not negotiated it on better terms. He said FTA with Indonesia will also be improved in favour of Pakistan. He said Pakistan will have duty free access to Indonesia on twenty items. The Advisor said Pakistan will get market access to ASEAN countries.

Abdul Razzak Dawood said industry and trade policies are being improved. He said financing will be arranged for industries, instead of offering them subsidies.

Addressing the event, Minister of State for Revenue Hammad Azhar said Federal Board of Revenue is being reformed by introducing technology into it. He said the link between tax payer and the tax collector will be minimized to improve efficiency of the organization. He said data is being integrated by various government departments for the purpose. He said the process of tax payment will also be simplified through new laws.

Earlier highlighting key features of his book, Dr. Hafiz Pasha said the book provides timely guidance to improve national economy, and his ten-point economic agenda can serve well in this regard.

He pointed out state capture of the elite, tax exemptions and privileges particularly to the feudal lords, and irritants in ease of doing business as main issues facing the national economy. He suggested introduction of inheritance tax on the pattern of Turkey and additional tax beyond a certain level of return on the equity like Bangladesh.

Other speakers including Parliamentary Secretary for Commerce Shandana Gulzar, PML-N leader Romina Khurshid, Chairperson National Commission on the Status of Women Khawar Mumtaz, Lt. General (retired) Talat Masood, and intellectual Haris Khalique also addressed the event and presented their proposals to improve economy of the country.