Source: The Balochistan Times
Publisher: Asianet-Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: © 2019 The Balochistan Times 
Publication Date: Aug 21, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: 4th phase of training of Govt Women Colleges faculty concluded

Snippet: The 4th phase of training of Principals and faculty members of government women colleges in multiple disciplines under Faculty Professional Development Training (FPDT) Project concluded here on Wednesday.

The closing ceremony of FPDT Project, a mega training project under the patronage of Pakistan Development Foundation (PDF) and Shaheed Benazir Bhutto Women University (SBBWU) was held at Pakistan Academy for Rural Development.

Body: 
This ceremony was attended by the Vice Chancellor SBBWU Professor. Dr. Razia Sultana, Chairman of the PDF, Muhammad Bilal Sethi, Director General Rural Academy, Farah Hamid Khan, Pro Vice Chancellor, Islamia College University, Professor Noushad Khan, Director Higher Education department, Abdul Wahab Khan, President of the National Bank, Saima Rahim, Former Ambassadorof Pakistan to Nigeria, Jalal ul din khan Advocate, General Secretary Pakistan China Friendship Association, Syed Ali Nawaz Gillani, Dr. Bushra Hamid, Dr. fakhr-ul-Islam, Dr. Miraj-ul-Islam Zia, administrative secretaries, members of the national and provincial assemblies, social activists and educationists were present in a large number.

Launched in May 2018 the project targeted a total of 34 institutes and 150 female participants. It not only included the female colleges of districts Peshawar and Charsadda but also focused all newly merged FATA Districts female colleges.

The project aimed at improving the standard of education at college level and coping teachers with emerging trends in teaching particularly in the field of BS programs which have been incorporated at college level as well as to encourage Research and Higher Education of females in the said underprivileged areas.

This training had great focus on teacher's pedagogical skills with reference to advancement in digital technology.

The first workshop was held on July 11, 2018 which was attended by 40 members of College Level faculty including the Principals and staff members of Govt. Girls Degree College Jamrud, Khyber District, Govt. Girls Degree College Kalaya, Orakzai District, Govt. Girls Degree College Ekkaghund, Mohmmand District, Govt. Girls Degree College Dara Adam Khel, FR Kohat District, Govt. Girls Degree College Alizai and Govt. Girls Degree College Parachinar No:I of District Kurram.

There were five sessions which encompassed the ' Difficulties in English Learning and Teaching, Educational Management and Planning, Learning Psychology, Academic writing, Guidance - Counseling, Career Planning and Research Methodology including one pager Research Method.

The second phase held on August 15, 2018 and trained 42 librarians from 34 institutions. The 3rd Phase was designed wholly for the faculty of three newly merged districts' Colleges and 37 participants were given training. The 4th phase imparted training to 30 participants from 13 institutes of District Peshawar.

The Vince Chancellor SBBWU, Prof Dr Razia Sultana also stressed at the importance of training and workshops. She said that being torch bearer of the pioneer women University of KP, we will not leave any stone unturned to contribute for the betterment of the females of KP.

'Our mission is to educate the underprivileged', said the Chairman Pakistan Development Foundation, Muhammad Bilal Sethi during the concluding ceremony. At the end certificates and souvenirs were distributed among participants and special guests respectively.