Source: Daily Balochistan Express
Publisher: Asianet-Pakistan
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Daily Balochistan Express, Quetta 
Publication Date: Jan 24, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Jam Kamal invites foreign companies to invest in Balochistan

Snippet: Asianet Pakistan Private Limited

QUETTA: The mineral rich province has mammoth of opportunities of investment while foreign investors can pick benefits by investing in Gawadar's deep sea port, gas and mineral sectors and tourism. CM Balochistan said.

Body: 
Jam Kamal Khan Aliyani who has been attending World Economic Forum in Devos Switzerland informed the world's richest community regarding business opportunities in Balochistan, "Following the importance of Gawadar Sea Port in Central Asian Market the Saudi Arabia pledged 10 billion dollars investment in Gawadar which indicates that Balochistan has been emerging as economic hub for the entire region." Jam Kamal said while addressing a ceremony Devos on Thursday.

Commander Southern Command Lieutenant General Asim Saleem Bajwa, Senator Anwar ul Haq Kakar, Defense Affairs' Expert Akram Sehgal were present in the ceremony. Inviting foreign companies to invest in Balochistan Jam Kamal said, the mineral rich province has vast business opportunities in Gawadar Port, Gas and Minerals and Tourism, "Pakistan has been producing 20 trillion cubic feet natural gas while Balochistan has 28 million cubic feet natural gas reservoirs which could be available through investment in natural gas sector.

" Jam Kamal said and pledged full security for foreign companies. "The Provincial Government has established free trade zone in Gawadar for foreign companies following the interests of international companies.

" He added, the provincial government is questionable to the masses of Balochistan therefore we have let our doors opened for all private companies. "The Government of Balochistan is ready to lend all facilities to the companies willing to invest in provincial tourism sector on coastal strip of Balochistan.

" Talking on China Pakistan Economic Corridor CM Jam Kamal said, mammoth of investment opportunities has been heading toward Balochistan in CPEC added fortunately other countries have expresses their interest of joining Pak-China's joint venture of trade.