Source: Pakistan Observer
Publisher: Pakistan Observer
Byline: 
Copyright: Copyright © 2019. Pakistan Observer 
Publication Date: Mar 29, 2019

Region Codes: ,pakis,asiaz,devgcoz,dvpcoz,indsubz,sasiaz,

Title: Master plans must to provide facilities to urban areas: PM Urges 'inclusive development'; Performs groundbreaking of Balochistan Health Complex, Quetta-Zhob Dual Carriageway and New Gwadar Airport

Snippet: Prime Minister Imran Khan on Friday performed the groundbreaking of Balochistan Health Complex, Quetta-Zhob Dual Carriageway as part of western alignment of China-Pakistan Economic Corridor and

New Gwadar International Airport.

Body: 
Addressing the inauguration ceremony, Imran Khan said, 'The country was headed towards destruction with the way it was being run previously and the ways of 'Purana Pakistan' had made the country bankrupt. The previous rulers used Balochistan's resources for their personal gains,' the prime minister said.

Imran said, 'In the past, politics was only done in Balochistan to win elections. The previous prime minister visited foreign countries five times more than he visited Balochistan.'

The premier also spoke of the need to create a master plan for Quetta. 'Major cities in Pakistan do not have master plans, and cities are expanding. Unless you have master plans in place, you cannot provide basic facilities to urban areas,' he said.

'The people of Balochistan fear that they will become a minority and lose their jobs,' the premier said. 'We were discussing this earlier, we need institutes for technical education and skill development. I will discuss this further with the chief minister,' he told the ceremony.

'In the NFC award, money was increased for Balochistan but it did not reach the people. There was no cardiac institute in the province,' he regretted. 'We will pull Pakistan out of these flawed systems and bring change,' he vowed.

Prime Minister Khan said the complex would become part of a medical city planned in Quetta. 'We are also going to build a cancer hospital here,' he said.

'It is important to understand that heart and cancer treatments need specialists. It was hard for us to arrange oncologists, engineers and others, but now we will start this facility with the help of the army and the provincial government,' he said.

The event was attended by federal ministers, Balochistan chief minister, parliamentarians, Chief of Army Staff General Qamar Javed Bajwa and Chinese Ambassador to Pakistan Yao Jing, besides huge number of Chinese workers and government officials.

The premier announced that the cancer institute will be made with the help of Pakistan Army and the provincial government. Speaking about the Quetta-Zhob Dual Carriageway, the premier said it was a difficult project. 'The Quetta-Zhob Dual Carriageway will connect the province to other parts of the country,' he said.

'We also needed to pay attention towards the western route,' Imran said and added that the government wishes to make a railway track from Quetta to Taftan and Railways Minister Sheikh Rashid is making efforts in this regard.

The prime minister further said Chinese support was being sought for up-gradation of the railways system as the country had the most advanced rail system. He said one could travel from Karachi to Lahore within four hours if you take Chinese trains.

PM further said that under CPEC, the western route should have been made first. The southern common alignment starts at Gwadar and terminates at Basima. From Basima onwards, the corridor breaks into eastern, central and western passages. These passages re-converge at Burhan - which marks the beginning of the northern common alignment that passes through Thakot and Khunjerab.

The federal government describes the Gwadar-Hoshab-Surab road as a section of the western route in its official briefs and maps when in fact it is the southern common alignment.

this is the only road that has been built in Balochistan over the last five years.The prime minister during his visit to Quetta, was to lay the foundation stone of a new campus of the National University of Science and Technology.

'All the fishermen that have been worried that building this highway would mean that their buisness would dwindle, I would like to tell them that there is nothing to worry about. We have allocated funds to build bridges to facilitate you in your trade,' premier said.

'The second thing I would like to announce is that we will be brining Sehat Insaf Cards to this area,' the prime minister said. The prime minister also announced that Gwadar will be connected to Pakistan's national grid.

The premier also stressed the need for a 'strong local government system for Balochistan'. 'Till local government system is not improved, people's quality of life will not be improved. In Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, we improved the local government system owing to which we emerged successful there for a second time,' he added,

'The country also faces water issues for which we are building a dam. We do not want to think about other elections but our country's progress,' he asserted. 'If Balochistan is focused on then the whole country will progress,' he stated.

'Electricity is one of the major issues in this area for which the government has fixed a budget and the area will be supplied electricity from the national grid,' he said during his address.

China has the best railways technology in the world and with its cooperation Gwadar will be connected to Quetta via railway line, he added.

On this occasion, a memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed for construction of Pakistan and China Vocational Training Institute and Pak-China Friendship Hospital.

Balochistan Chief Minister Jam Kamal also addressed the ceremony and thanked the prime minister for starting the work in real terms on the western route of CPEC and said the project is a game changer for the whole region.

'The Balochistan Health Complex is a joint project of Pakistan Army and the provincial government,' the provincial chief minister said and praised the role of Army Chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa for starting this project in collaboration with the government of United Arab Emirates.